Adonis, Claire mused. Who the hell was Adonis anyway? She laughed to
herself, here she was in history class and actually thinking about history.
At the front of the room her teacher, Mr. Whitmore droned on about some
war. Greeks, Persians? It was hard to keep track. The next test was not for
two weeks, so no use learning it now.  She was good at memorizing names and
dates. She would do fine.

She imagined Marcus as Adonis even though she had little idea who Adonis
actually was, beyond that Derek, Mr. Whitmore's first name and a more apt
moniker in her mind, had droned on about him earlier in class. He was a God
of some sort.  Beauty? She had seen Marcus on Saturday on the soccer field
playing with a few other kids from school.  Shirtless, his chest was
chiseled, at least that is how it would have been described in the sort of
novels she liked to read.  Like it was cut from stone, she thought. She
could imagine herself with chisel in hand, chipping away at a six foot
block of marble.  Slowly crafting Marcus starting with his smooth waves of
hard muscle.

Derek was now gesturing wildly. Something about Persia had got him all
excited, apparently the Persians were going to win this round. Why a war
won over 2000 years ago would excite anyone was beyond her. That his
excitement seemed genuine only made his performance all the more
depressing. 

A lot of kids liked Whitmore, or so they said. He was tall but not
particularly good looking. No one had used a chisel to carve his chest, she
thought as she watched his button down shirt billow about in search of
purchase. At least he still had most of his hair. But he had that air of
confidence that her classmates naively took as evidence of something to be
confident about. She had not yet met an adult that was not a dope, a bore
or both and Whitmore was no exception.

Mr. Whitmore turned and began writing on the board so Claire wrote whatever
he wrote in her notebook. Getting an A in this class would be easy,
Classical History or The Rise and Fall of the Greek Empire, a pretentious
sub-title that always made her think "Newsflash, Derek, you're a high
school teacher."

At least she wasn't taking AP US History or APUSH as the class was
affectionately known for all the pushy little children who spent their four
years at high school vying for first place behind overt demonstrations of
friendship. It was a cruel game perpetrated by adults, Claire thought, but
for what reason, she could not imagine.

She noticed Becky Hanson sitting front and center, her eyes glued to
Whitmore and crudely advertising sex. There was not much imagination in
that girl, Claire thought but she would get an A as well. We all played to
our strengths. It had even gotten her Marcus...well for just one weekend,
she laughed to herself.

And there was Justin sitting right behind her, equally smitten with Mr.
Whitmore but not equally endowed by God. His mouth hung agape, within which
Claire could see a glistening pool on the verge of breach. His best hand
was pity, which worked with some teachers, but not Whitmore, whose pride
demanded talent...or perhaps the pretense of sex. Not that Whitmore would
ever venture beyond his imagination, a dark well that Claire preferred not
to fathom.

What strengths did she have, she wondered? She was smarter than all the
other little shits in this school for one. Even smarter than Austin who sat
next to her. Austin who she sometimes cheated off of just because he was
too oblivious to cover his test paper. Austin the human calculator who was
taking this class only because he already completed APUSH in his sophomore
year. Austin the only child, with his bush of blond hair who seemed nothing
more than a parental science fair project. He just hadn't realized it yet.

She looked at the clock, fifteen minutes till the bell. Damn and I still
have eighteen more students to go. She almost snorted a laugh and quickly
glanced at Derek to make sure he had not seen her. She was smart enough to
know that teachers did not like laughter unless they were the ones telling
the joke. She remembered a story her father had told her about German
guards firing into the latrine of a British prison of war camp just because
they thought they heard laughter. 

Albert, a slight and speckled boy who peaked out from under a shag of
bangs, raised his hand and asked to go to the bathroom. Whitmore paused.
Poor Derek she thought, here he was a fully grown adult having to decide if
some little twerp was just jerking his chain or if he truly needed to
perform a necessary bodily function. A right that must have been addressed
somewhere in the Geneva Convention.

The decision she reasoned, really came down to the student. Deven, for
example, was an easy call. He only asked to go the bathroom on the odd
occasion when he suddenly found himself awake in class, a realization so
disturbing that he quickly tried extricate himself, like a nightmare in
reverse.  "Deven. You can hold it till the end of class" she said to
herself in Derek's nasal voice. Albert was a tough call, though in the end
Whitmore acquiesced.

"What's for lunch losers?" Claire asked as she dropped her tray on the
table across from Stuart and Lizzie and eyed their brown paper bags. Claire
remembered the last time she brought lunch to school in a brown paper bag.
It was two days before her mother went back to the hospital. 

Stuart said "Sandwich." holding up a ham and cheese already minus one bite.
"Sandwich?" Claire said to herself looking doubtful. A sandwich required
distinct layers of bread and cheese and meat. What Stuart held, and what he
ate almost every day of the year, was a gooey rectangular mass, centrally
reinforced by a thin slice of processed ham that, on the whole, seemed
better suited to patching a leak.

But this was not what Claire was after. The prize was in Lizzie's bag.
Lizzie lived in a house with a maid or some sort of servant or cook, who
each day made her lunch before she left for school. There was pasta with
mushroom cream sauce. Cheese and spinach quiche with a crust that flaked.
There was fresh fruit and custard. Claire's own plate from the cafeteria
contained a meatball sub, which wasn't bad if you could ignore the hard
bits which Claire could never ignore.  

Today Lizzie's lunch included skewers of chicken and sauce. "Here, you can
have a couple." she said . "Thanks" Claire smiled, "here have some chips."
she offered the bag to Lizzie. Stuart, as always, remained happy with his
sandwich.

They had been friends since freshmen year when Claire's family moved to
Washington. Lizzie and Stuart had known each other since first grade.
Stuart was tall and lanky, tall enough that he could not remain invisible
in a class of over 300 students. Lizzie was short and only got noticed by
association. 

"Did you hear that Rachel Lanskey passed out at Sophia's party last
weekend?" Stuart asked as he chewed his sandwich with more relish than it
deserved. "Why do we care what happened to Rachel Lanskey?" Claire growled.
"I am just making conversation. My therapist says I should make
conversation." "That is the dumbest thing I have ever heard. Why do you
have a therapist anyway?" "It is not my choice. My mother sends me." "Tell
her you don't want to go." "Actually, I like going. She is one of the few
people who actually listens to me." Stuart said with a slight grin. "She is
paid to listen to you." Claire shot back. Stuart just shrugged his
shoulders as if this did not matter. 

"Did either of you go to Sophia's party last weekend? Where you invited?"
Claire challenged.  Neither Stuart or Lizzie responded. "So why do you care
what happened there? Do you think anyone is asking what happened to me this
weekend?" "I already know what happened to you this weekend." Lizzie said.
"Yeah, we were there." Stuart added taking chips from Claire's bag. "You
really hate Rachel, don't you." Stuart said. "She hates me." Claire shot
back. "That is assuming she thinks about you." Lizzie said. "Whatever."
Claire groaned and looked around the cafeteria as if there was somewhere
else she would rather be.  "I still think it is kind of interesting that
she passed out." Stuart said.  

She had a note to go to Mr. Lowerys office after lunch. As she waited in
the main office, she listened to the school secretary on the phone.
"They're going to her mother's for Thanksgiving." The secretary said in
nasal tone that made everything she said sound like a complaint. "He said
they are coming to my house for Christmas." She held the mouthpiece. "Hon,
you need something?" "I'm waiting for Mr. Lowery." Claire responded.
"Alright." She went back to the phone. "No, he didn't ask me, he just told
me."

Mr. Lowery's door opened. A girl emerged and quickly made her way out of
the office. Claire could not blame her. Lowery did not get up when she
entered. "A brute." her father would have said. He waived her to a seat
while he searched for and found a file on his desk. He paused looking down
at the file. "So do you know why you are here?" He looked at her with his
soft and exaggerated features, like a boy that had simply grown big without
ever passing through adolescence.

"No" she lied and then thought "I am here because you sent me a note in
homeroom to come see you, you idiot." "So why did you not come to school on
Monday?" "I wasn't feeling well." "Your" he glanced quickly at the record
in front of him, "father should have called with a note from your doctor."
"Yeah" she said in a tone indicating that she was already tired of this
game.  "It looks like you already have ten unexcused absences this year."
"Uh huh." "Is anything wrong?" At this she let out an audible snort.

"What's so funny?" He did not seem offended but genuinely interested, as if
she would confide in him and they could both laugh together about how
stupid he was. "Your brother did very well here." He seemed to know this
from memory. "I know." she said. She missed Tom and regretted having spoken
to him only a few times since he left for college.

"So where do you want to go to college?" he asked. She wanted to tell him
that she did not want to go to college, that she intended to join the
circus but she could not think of any circus act for which she was
adequately built. Though maybe they could fire her out of a cannon. She did
not imagine you needed much strength for that. "I don't know." she said. He
listed five colleges that he felt lined up well with her present GPA and
SAT scores. She was impressed and wondered how deep his memory went for
matching colleges to student's scores. She thought there should be a game
show for that and could picture his man-boy face beaming with pride as he
correctly placed an assortment of boys and girls into their correct
collegiate categories. 

"Well let's just try to get to school more often for the rest of the year."
Was that it? She thought. Was he letting her go? "Yeah, I'll try." she said
with as much sincerity as she could muster. Leaving the office she passed
the school secretary who was now complaining to someone on the other end of
the line that her son never calls her anymore.

Claire handed her math teacher, Mr Langstrom a late slip and took her seat
by the window. She liked Langstrom, mainly because he left you alone unless
you raised your hand. She watched Langstrom draw a series of equations on
the board that together told a their own story, but of what she could not
say. Her own thoughts were far away. She was no longer in school, but a
writer and then an actress. Then the bell rang interrupting her thoughts.
She made her way to French class. Her last class of the day.

At the end of the school day, she stood at her locker and stared down to
where her French book had just landed among a jumble of papers and
notebooks that she told herself she would organize one day soon, but that
day never seemed to arrive. She noticed her biology book down there as well
and leaned down to pick it up.  There was a test tomorrow. When she came
back up Lindsey was standing next to her working the combination of the
locker next to hers.

"Hey" Lindsey said when their eyes met. "Hey." "How's it going?" Lindsey
asked as she pulled a book off the top shelf of her locker. "Fine." Claire
tried to sound positive in the way that Lindsey sounded positive. Claire
watched as Lindsey pulled her hair back tight behind her head into a
ponytail and then used a black band from her wrist to wrap her hair once
and then twice. It was the sort of act that somehow seemed to Claire too
intimate for a public space. Claire's father had enjoyed tying her own hair
into a ponytail when she was young, though no matter how hard he tried his
ponytails never lasted long.

From behind, Claire heard a loud female voice call "Linsay" the girl
pronounced.  The girl punched Lindsey on the shoulder as she passed.
"What's up Kate." Lindsey said barely turning.  After the girl left Lindsey
turned to Claire and confided, "Kate likes acting tough." "Uh huh" Claire
responded.  They stood facing each other.  Lindsey a few inches taller than
Claire. "You got a game today?" Claire asked thinking that she would like
to act tough. "Not till Friday.  You should come watch." Lindsey smiled as
she hoisted her equipment bag over her shoulder. "Sure" Claire smiled and
she watched as Lindsey disappeared into a sea of overly excited teenagers. 

After school, Claire headed to the local library to study for her biology
test. It wasn't long before Stuart and Lizzie found her and convinced her
to go to Stuart's house to watch a movie. Recently they had both gotten
into watching sappy teenage dramas that were made by the same company that
manufactured greeting cards for people who, for whatever reason, found
themselves unable to come up with their own expressions of concern or joy
for their loved ones. 

Claire did not get home until after six. She dropped her backpack in the
kitchen and was about to open the fridge when she noticed a light on in the
living room. She found her dad leaning back on the couch in his slightly
rumpled linen suite. His hands resting in his lap. His collar open. A
paisley silk tie lose about his neck. A drink, gin and tonic Claire
suspected, on the table in front of him. She could tell it was not his
first drink and it was not going to be his last.

"What are you doing here?" she asked surprised. "I live here, don't I?" he
smiled. She stared at him expressionless. "Sorry" he said looking down at
the glass he now held in his hand. "Alison kick you out?" she asked.
"No...not really" he grinned still looking at the glass. "but she should
have." he added. "You been doing okay?" he looked back up at her. "Yeah.
I'm okay." she said still standing across from him. "You miss mom?" he
asked. "Yeah." she replied in tone meant to indicate that she did not like
this line of questioning.  "Every day. How about you?" she asked.  "Yeah."
He said quietly his gaze returned to his glass. She wanted to kick that
glass right out of his hand.  

"You talk to Tommy?" she asked. "Not in a while." he responded. That meant
never she thought. He and Tommy had started not getting along when Mom was
sick and it tore her mother's heart.  Claire never quite understood what
started it.  Her father did not ask if she had spoken with Tommy, but if he
had, she would have lied. "How is Alison?" she asked. "Fine" he said and
then shrugged "...I guess." 

"You going to school?" he asked. Claire suddenly wondered if this was why
he was here. Had the school called him? "Yeah" she said.  "How is school
going?" he asked. "It's fine." she said. "I mean its stupid and absurd and
boring..."  She stopped herself regretting saying too much. "Sounds like
life." he said. "No." she replied "Life is real. School is not real." 

"What makes you think life is any more real than school?" he said in a
weary tone. "You think my job is real, getting paid to advise banks what
bonds to buy? I have no idea what bonds banks should buy" he laughed.
"You're getting paid." Claire responded. He paused and looked at his glass.
"I guess you think capitalism is real then." he said with shrug of
resignation.  He looked about the room. "This house with no family in it."
he shook his head. "You left." She almost shouted.  "Believe me" he went on
"every phase of life is just as absurd and boring and stupid as the next,
and real starts the day you are born."  "Then we can change it." she said.
"Sure exchange one absurdity for another, be my guest." He raised his glass
in a mock toast.  "Better just to make the best of it." he said and then
added "It's like they say, when life gives you lemons..." his voice trailed
off.  He attention then shifted to bookshelf. He squinted at it as if he
were trying to find a book he left there.

He got up off the couch and pulled his overcoat back over his shoulders.
"Was he done?" she thought. Was this why he had came home, to give her some
stupid fucking speech about his stupid fucking life? "You're not staying."
she said neither as a question nor a statement but simply as a
confirmation. "No. Alison is waiting for me." He made his way to the door.
"I'll see you later." he smiled.

