	From his office window, James watched as a woman across the street yelled at a man sitting on a bench. He couldn't hear her yell, but he could see her arms raised and her fists clenched and he could see her mouth open and her eyes looking down on him as if she might consume him at any moment.  The man looked up at her with only vague interest.  
	The drama across the street was nothing new. James had seen it play out everyday since he moved into his office four years ago. The cast of characters varied throughout the year, though there were a few regulars.  Their numbers increased in the summer months and dwindled in the winter.  He had heard that there was a methadone clinic nearby by way of an explanation.  
	They were mostly white, but of assorted shapes, sizes, ages and genders.  They would shout, laugh, gesture, dance, cajole, negotiate, argue, yell and sometimes even fight, but never to any great effect.  They wore jackets, pants, sun dresses and skirts, and held hand bags and cell phones just like everyone else, but they were not like everyone else.  
	Their lives were not punctuated by the usual changes of venue associated with work day, evening and weekend.  Their lives unfolded continuously in this one location each day from morning to night like actors on a perpetual stage playing for no one but James or so it seemed to him, for no one else ever seemed to notice them.  
	What amazed James most was that they were always engaged in conversations, often of apparently vital importance. James wondered what could be so important. What dramatic conflict was mounting or being resolved in lives that seemed to have no external consequence. By contrast, James's generally found any conversation lasting more than twenty minutes usually required work.  
	As he looked out his window and watched, his thoughts drifted to his son.  For the past year, he had looked out his window and thought about his son.  For the past year, he has also done so little work, that he felt he should have been fired or, at the very least, moved to a desk without a window. He could only assume that his manager felt sorry for him and that when she weighed the emotional cost of firing him against monetary cost of his lack of productivity, he came out slightly ahead. He wasn't planning to argue with her on this point.  
	Someone had once told him that after a year, you either move on or you don't.  James was not moving on. A year ago, James's son was hit by car and killed as he was walking home from school. The driver was not drunk or senile, just careless and young.  
	That evening at home as he brushed his teeth before going to bed, he listened to the sound of traffic outside the open bathroom window. He could easily make out the individual vehicles, a truck then a bus, then a series of cars going up or down the street. In most cases, it was not the sound of the car's engine or any sort of mechanical noise that he heard, but the woosh the car made as it pushed through the air, creating waves like the wake from a boat that entered his house through windows and walls and expended its energy against everything in its path.  
	The next morning, James stood waiting to cross his street to catch the bus to work. It seemed to take even longer than usual to find a break in the traffic.  First there was traffic on one side of the street and then on the other.  When the street was finally clear on both sides he started across, but just then a car came out from a side street moving in his direction.  Instead of walking back to the sidewalk, he just stopped where he was in the street and waited for the car to pass in front of him.  But this car was followed by another and now there was now a car coming toward him in the lane where he was standing. He didn't move. He just stood there and waited.  The car coming toward him stopped and within a short time more cars backed up behind it. There were still cars traveling on the opposite side of the street, and so he just stood there.  
	After about twenty seconds, one of the cars began to honk, but James did not move. He began to feel as though he couldn't move as though he needed to be there, as though he were now a fixture in the pavement.  Even when there was break in the traffic on the other side of the street, he just stood there. A few cars tried to dart around him. James just stood there looking straight ahead. And as he stood there he started to smile to himself. He smiled at how fragile the whole system suddenly seemed. He smiled at how one man standing in one lane of a street could, in only a few minutes, cause cars to back up farther then he could see.  
	He also thought about his neighbors watching him. He thought about the people in the cars watching him. He wondered if anyone he knew could see him standing there in the street. He wondered what they would think. He figured they would just think he was crazy. It was not a bad assumption.  
	A few minutes later he heard a siren. He knew the police were coming to remove him from the street. He felt some relief that there was now a definite resolution to his situation, one from which he seemed unable to extricate himself. He almost smiled as he noticed the difficultly the police car had getting through the traffic, but thought it best not to betray any emotion.  
	The police car stopped near him and the officers both got out. One started to direct traffic around him and the other came over to ask if he was okay.  He said he was and the officer asked if he would mind moving back to the side walk. James agreed and walked off the street escorted by the officer.  
	The officer asked him why he was standing in the street and he said he didn't know. He said he was tired and confused. Looking toward his house, he could see his wife and daughter inside. He could see them watching him from behind the curtain.  
	The officer did not feel the need to site James for any violation, but walked him back to his house where his wife Sarah had come out to meet them on the steps. The officer suggested to Sarah that she take James to the emergency room so that he could be evaluated. She agreed and they went back inside.  
	Sarah asked James if he was okay. James said that he was just trying to cross the street, and got stuck halfway, not sure what to do. He said he hadn't very slept well for the past few nights. It was the kind of explanation that only made sense if you wanted it to make sense. Sarah looked at him without saying anything. James said he was fine and headed off to work again, but agreed to walk down to the intersection and cross at the crosswalk.  
	That evening when he got home from work he found Sarah in the kitchen making dinner. His daughter had gone to a friend's house for the night. He felt relieved by her absence. His relationship with his daughter was strained enough without the awkward events of the morning. He could remember a time when she would run to hug him as soon as he came in the door. Those days were long gone. He had heard that the change in their relationship was just typical adolescent behavior, but he could not help thinking that it was somehow his fault.  
	As he entered the kitchen Sarah turned and smiled "Hey Jamie, how was work?" It was how she always greeted him, her hands busy rolling, chopping and mixing, making breads and soups and loafs. A process that, to James, seemed as mysterious as alchemy.  
	Since their daughter was born, Sarah had worked part-time as an accountant for a local construction company and she always made dinner, even when it was just the two of them. James had heard of other couples falling into a habit of "making do" when it came to dinner, but with Sarah the ritual persisted.  
	As James sat at the kitchen table, Sarah talked with him about her sister who was getting divorced and was considering moving to the city. She talked about a leak in the bathroom sink that needed to be fixed. Mostly, all James had to do was confirm that he was still listening with a nod or audible cue.  
	After dinner James helped clear the table and dry the pots and pans. Sarah was now talking about a friend at work who had had an argument with her boss. Interrupting her he asked "Is it okay, if I go for a bike ride?" She shut off the water and turned to him her hands still wet. She then reached for a towel and drying her hands said, "Sounds fine." He promised he would not be back too late.  
	It was early summer and the days were long. James walked his bike to the end of the driveway and instead of trying to cross the traffic, he set off in its flow. He had only recently taken up riding a bike again. The last time he owned a bike was in college. He still felt nervous riding in the street, never sure where he belonged, usually feeling either too close to the cars in the street or too close to the cars parked on the side of the road and imagining the frustration of every driver that passed him.  
	As he headed further into the city, buildings replaced sky, traffic lights commanded attention, and cars, buses and trucks jockeyed for advantage over the two lanes of traffic. James glanced at his watch.  It was getting late and he felt he should turn back soon.  
	As he looked for place to turn around, he began to hear behind him people shouting and whooping and ringing bells. The noise was quickly closing in on him. Suddenly he found himself surrounded by bicycles. To James, the riders appeared young and tough and harsh and loud.  A few of them smiled at him as if inviting him to join their fun, but most just ignored him too conscious of their own part in the rolling spectacle.  
	The cyclists displaced a space of no more than two or three cars, keeping pace within the flow of traffic, and yet to the drivers around them they remained foreign and a threat. But none of this mattered to James riding in the center of the group. Here, insulated from traffic, he felt at peace and he forgot about his plans to head home.  
	Approaching a traffic light, the group stopped. James stopped with them.  Some of the riders stood over their bikes, but others continued to ride around in circles, as if possessed by an internal momentum. As they waited for the light to change, the car directly behind them honked its horn and the cyclist's answered with shouts and bells and jeers. The car honked again and again the group responded with more noise. The light was still red.  Finally, the driver leaned out of his window and yelled, "Get the hell out of the road." 
	As the light turned green, most of the group moved on but four of the riders, two women and two men who had been circling continued to circle in front of the car. James stayed with them standing over his bike in the lane and in front of the car and looked ahead. The driver gunned the engine and leaned on the horn and then pushed forward into one of bikes knocking the rider off.  The rider jumped up, picked up his bike and threw it at the front window of the car cracking the windshield. He and a second rider were quickly at the drivers side of the car. One of them, swung a large hammer into the driver side window as the driver tried to close it.  The other reached in, yanked the door open with enough strength that it appeared to break from its hinges. He grabbed the driver, pulled him from the car and threw him into the street. He then walked over to the driver picked him up and punched him hard.  The driver fell again into the street and lay not moving.  
	At the front of the car, another rider had thrust a metal bar into the grill of the car puncturing the radiator causing the hood to open. A second rider then swung what looked to James like a sledge hammer from over her head and then down into the engine causing parts of engine to splinter out into the air. A third punctured the tires with what looked like a pick axe.  The car sunk down to the street, steam hissed from its radiator, the motor sputtered and coughed and died.  
	James remained standing over his bike and watched.  
	Soon there was the faint wail of sirens in the distance. Three of the riders returned to their bikes. The other man whose bike had been damaged by the car walked over to James looked at him curiously, smiled and then pushed him hard onto the ground.  He picked up James's bike and got on it.  The other women picked up the man's damaged bike and hoisted it over her shoulder in a way that seemed to defy its weight. Then all four rode off together.  
	When James stood up a woman was yelling at him. The driver of the car was lying on the ground and not moving. The woman passenger from the car was next to the man on the ground and crying. A young man was consoling the woman from the car, another man and woman were attending to the driver, an older man was trying to keep back the crowd that had formed. Out of nowhere, a new and dramatic scene had evolved complete with actors as if they had been walking hidden among pedestrians waiting for just this moment.  
	James turned to leave. The woman continued to shout at him but remained where she stood, reluctant to leave her place on the stage. The crowd hesitantly made way for his exit, uncertain of their own role in the performance.  
	As James made his way down the street, the scene of the accident slowly faded behind him and into the general wash of the city. He was a long way from home, but he was in no rush to get there. The day had accumulated more than its share of notable events that needed time to be sorted and filed among the layers of daily debris that together defined him.  
	His hand throbbed from where he had landed on it when he fell. Newly dried blood covered the scraped skin. His shirt sleeve was torn and there was bike grease on his pants. All of which would have made him feel self conscious in the light of day, but through the veil of night he remained inconspicuous.  
	Along the sidewalk, his attention was drawn to the scenes that played out around him in the late hours of night. Two boys and a girl walked in his direction, young and drunk, a lazy knot of arms that swayed and laughed as they made their way past. A man argued with a bouncer in front of a night club while a line of people behind him, anxious and bored, waited their turn to enter.  Across the street, a group of boys hopped, danced and spun down the sidewalk with aimless bravado.  A car with girls inside drove by.  The boys shouted for their attention. Between them a bottle was tossed and broke in the street, but from which party, James could not tell.  
	As James finally neared his home, hungry and reluctant to let the day end, he decided to stop at a sandwich shop and get a bite to eat. Inside a young couple sat at a booth next to the window. The boy ate a bowl of spaghetti and meatballs in a watery tomato sauce and the girl watched a television set behind his head. In another booth an older man had fallen asleep, but bothering no one, he was left alone.  
	Two men in aprons worked behind the counter, olive complexion, dark hair, short in stature with forearms thick from generations of use.  One called to the other in a language the James did not understand, Greek or Italian James guessed. The girl pointed to something on the television. The boy turned to look, nodded and then went back to his bowl of spaghetti. James placed his order. The man handed him his change. James wanted to say something more. He wanted to ask him a question about where he was from or maybe how long he had worked there.  He had been to the shop many times before during the day and had seen other customers chat informally with the men behind the counter. But all James could do was take his change and say "Thank you." 
	It was past 3AM when he finally came to the end of his driveway. He looked at his house. He had lived there for 14 years. In that time it had barely changed except for a couple new coats of paint. It contained a lot of memories, good, bad and indifferent. It sat dark and quiet, the way he liked it best, he thought.  
	Entering the house, he quietly made his way up to the bedroom. His wife lay under a thin sheet that rose and fell gently with her breath. She mumbled a word that he could not make out.  He undressed and slipped into bed next to her. Sleep quickly overcame him putting an end to the long day.  
	At exactly 7:30, the alarm clock began its steady chime but for more than three minutes was unable to rouse either James or Sarah. Finally Sarah, usually a light sleeper, pulled herself out of slumber.  Seeing James lying next to her, she shook him by the shoulder "James, it is 7:34" and then, as he sat up and looked at her trying to focus, she asked him, "What happened to you last night?  When did you get home?" James explained about the bike accident and that he had walked home. As he told his story, she examined his wounded hand. Holding it, he watched as she traced the outline of the scrape.  
	She looked up at him and asked "Are you alright?" "Yes, I am fine." he lied. "Why didn't you call me? Don't you think I worry?" she asked.  He responded that by the time he thought to call he knew she would have been asleep, an excuse which neither he nor she believed. 	
	"I called the police." she said. "Oh" he said. "I didn't know what else to do." She looked at him and shook her head. James did not respond and for a moment neither of them spoke. "James, why are you doing this?" she broke down. He was not surprised by her change in tone. He only wondered why what had taken her so long. "Doing what?" he asked.  "Don't you know that I feel everything you feel, that I also think about him every day and that every time I think about him my heart aches with a pain so deep that I don't know how I will survive it." She paused looking at him. "Are you going to go on like this forever?" "I don't want to." He said but was not even sure if that was true. "Because I don't...I don't think I can take it anymore." she said quietly fiddling with a knot in her nightgown's drawstring.  
	For a moment they were both quiet. She touched his hand again. "Does it hurt?" "A little" he said, relieved to be asked a question that he could answer honestly.  
	On his way to work that morning, he sat on the bus replaying their morning conversation.  Maybe he would not go on like this forever, he thought hopefully, maybe today would be different, though he could think of no evidence to support this hypothesis.  
	He made it to work on time. That was one thing you could say for him he thought as he sat down at his desk at 9am. He was never late for work.  He looked at the stack of folders that were waiting for him. Each folder contained an insurance claim that he needed to review. Each claim a complaint about some minor tragedy and a demand for monetary compensation.  Tragedies that were perpetrated by acts of God or criminals and directed at the sorts of of objects that could be repaired, rebuilt or replaced, but never made the same. That was how the world worked, he thought. Nothing could ever return to its original state.  
	His job was to find the flaw in the applicant's story, evidence that their loss was not as tragic or as worthy as claimed. Up until his son's accident, he had been good at his job.  
	Toward the middle of the afternoon, he got a call from a secretary requesting that he meet with Denise at the end of the day. Denise was the division supervisor and his boss's boss. He had only met with her a few times before. Once when he was first hired.  
	As he entered her office, she was just finishing a phone call. She pointed to a seat in front of her desk. After putting down the phone, she asked him how he was doing. She said she understood that it had been a very difficult year for him. She looked at him with that same sort of smile that he had seen on so many other faces as if she were trying to feel his sadness. It seemed to him an odd human instinct that was both impossible and pointless.  
	She lowered her glasses and opened a file folder on her desk and began to review his job performance over the past year. She reviewed the numbers of claims he had processed over various periods of time. Apparently for one six-week period, he had done absolutely nothing. And then it dawned on him what was happening. As she continued, he began to have a hard time focusing on what she was saying. He could hear himself respond with the appropriate affirmations at the appropriate points in her speech, but to what he was confessing he was not sure.  
	Although her point already well made, she seemed compelled to continue, to thoroughly explain the details of how she came to her decision. As if by not stopping she was somehow keeping the tragedy of what was happening at bay, that it might be subdued by shear weight of conversation.  
	James began to feel as though he was no longer seated in his chair but a few feet up in the air, looking down at her from a safe vantage point. She did not seem to notice.  All he wanted was for the conversation to be over.  He wanted her to stop.  If he had had a white flag he would have waved it.  Finally he heard her say, "I'm sorry." which seemed to indicate that she was finished. He then said "Thank you" and left.  
	At his desk, he sat and stared at the stack of unprocessed claims. In a battle of wills they had won and he had lost. By the end of the day he would be gone and in a few days or weeks, someone else would be sitting at his desk. The claims would be then be processed and the company would once again function properly and efficiently.  
	He picked up a photo of his family that he kept in the top drawer of his desk and put it in his shirt pocket. He looked around, not sure what else to take. There was nothing else that was his.  
	After a while a security guard who had been standing across the room came over to him and asked him for his identity badge.  The guard called him "sir." He knew the guard's name. "Donald" was printed above the pocket on his uniform, but in all the years at the company James had never tried to address him directly or exchanged more than a simple greeting.  Now did not seem like the time to start.  
	The guard stood quietly by his desk while James prolonged the inevitable, looking through his drawers and files as if he might find something of personal value that needed to take with him. Finally giving up, Donald escorted James out of the building and before closing the door behind him said, "Have an nice evening, sir." 
	James stood outside the building squinting into the low sun that peaked out under dark clouds moving in from the West. Across the street a woman was laughing. James turned to watch her. He had watched her many times before from his window. She was laughing in a way that carried her body forward and then back as she tried to maintain balance rocking from one foot to the other. "What could she be laughing at?" James thought. Maybe she was laughing at him, he thought. Maybe she was, in fact, a siren, who for the past year had ardently drawn his attention until finally he stood outside his office, the door closed and locked behind him.  
	James crossed the street. The woman stopped laughing. It seemed that her joke had run its course. Her objective realized she would now turn her attention to another unsuspecting employee who had the misfortune to sit at a desk overlooking the plaza.  
	He pulled the picture from his shirt pocket. His family was smiling at him.  "What had made them smile?" he thought.  Was it just because that is what you did in pictures? His daughter's smile was missing two front teeth. He could vaguely remember writing notes to her from the tooth fairy. He wondered if she ever believed they were real.  
	He pulled his wallet from his hip pocket. He placed the photo in the wallet.  He had heard that a wallet found in the mail would be returned to its owner. He walked to the corner of the plaza and tossed the wallet in a mailbox. Whatever value it held no longer belonged to him.  
	He walked back to the bench and sat and watched. The menagerie continued to dance around him, preoccupied with their own madness, he thought. Most of the group was scattered around the plaza in twos and threes. The remainder flitted about between these groups pausing for conference as if to mimic a larger and more complex social structure.  
	As the hour grew late, he wondered where they all went at night. Maybe, he thought, when darkness fell complete, they just slowly came to a halt, like windup creatures whose springs had finally exhausted enough energy that they could no longer overcome the friction of their gears, and stood resting motionless until their caretaker came round before dawn to wind them back up again.  
	It began to rain, a light but steady rain. Unprepared their world quickly dissolved. They left their posts and gathered together in the middle of the plaza. After a brief conference the majority headed off together downtown.  James followed.  
	They made a cumbersome group moving down the sidewalk. Sometimes three and four abreast, sometimes spilling into the street. Every couple of blocks the group would stop to adjust itself, like an old man stopping to hike up his sagging trousers.  
	After about dozen blocks, they joined a line of people waiting to enter a large rectangular building. The building, efficiently constructed from poured concrete and steel, stood out among a row of mostly older buildings.  James wondered what misfortune had befallen the building that previously occupied this space.  
	The rain remained light, but the crowd was anxious to enter before it got worse. James asked the woman in front of him if she knew when the building opened. The woman turned to face James. For more than a year he had watched her from afar. Close up she looked older. Her face tan and course from a life spent outside. Her eyes hung tranquil and in their damp sockets as if waiting for something to arouse them from their slumber. As James looked at her face, he tried to imagine her as a new born baby. "Everyone was a new born baby once." he thought.  
	She said it opened at 7pm and added, "but ya'd think the bastards would open up a little early with the rain." James agreed.  
	At exactly 7pm the doors opened and people began to file in. By then the line behind James extended to the end of the block. Inside, the lobby was crowded, bright and humid. It smelled of warm bodies and wet clothes. On the walls were inspirational posters including one that showed a man on top of a mountain above the phrase "Make it Happen." 
	The crowd slowly divided into two groups with men going in one door and women going in the other. A much smaller line formed in front of third door under a sign that said "New Guest Intake." A staff person had already identified James as a new guest and directed him to this line where he waited with the other new guests.  
	He instinctively felt his pocket. Not finding his wallet, he momentarily panicked before he remembered that he had tossed it in the mailbox. He wondered if some form of ID would be required to stay in the shelter. He knew that he would at least need a name and one that was not his own. The name Jacob was the first that popped into his head. It seemed suitable.  "Jacob Jackson" he thought "or JJ for short." He was surprised. New names were easy. As he stood in line, he rehearsed his new name.  
	Inside a private room, James sat across from the counselor who was already busy filling in a form. Barely looking up at James he asked for some identification. James said that he did not have any, adding that he had lost his wallet. The counselor paused looking up from the form. He looked at James over his glasses, "Well it is not a requirement for a bed in the shelter, but it is helpful." he said, pausing again to indicate seriousness of his statement, though not explaining why.  
	Returning to his form, he asked "First and last name?" "Jacob, Jacob Jackson, my friends call me JJ." James responded feeling that aloud, his rehearsed response sounded awkward.  The counselor continued "Date of birth?" "Last permanent address?" "Are you taking any medication?" "Are you presently employed?" "Are you married?" "Are you receiving any treatment for drug addiction?" James answered the questions with a mix of truth and fiction. "Who should we contact in case of a medical emergency?" James paused. "No one." The counselor looked up from the form again. "No brothers, no sisters, an aunt, a cousin?" he challenged. "No." said James.  
	The counselor gave James two small slips of paper with a different number each of on them.  One was for his bed assignment and the other for fresh clothing. James reentered the lobby which had mostly emptied out. A few people, clearly intoxicated where being directed out of the shelter. A staff member pointed him toward the door to the men's unit.  
	On the door was posted, "Men Only" and "No one under 18 allowed." Directly inside the door on the wall another rule read, "All residents must take a shower before entering the dormitory" with arrows leading to the line for the shower.  
	Waiting in line, James was handed a towel, soap and a toothbrush. The showers were along one wall of an open stall and were overseen by shelter staff. Five men stood naked lathering their bodies with soap.  James could not remember ever seeing a grown man naked before. Devoid of clothing, their bodies looked comical, lopsided and limp and covered in patches of vestigial hair. Watching them James undressed slowly, hesitant to expose his own body to judgement.  
	After drying off and wearing only a towel, James was directed to an adjacent room where he could get fresh clothes. Standing in line he heard a voice behind him, "First time here?" James turned to see a slightly built older man a few inches shorter than himself. "Yes" said James uncertain whether he wanted to foster this man's association.  "You should easily get your size." he said "Me, everything they have is too big. White shirts are the easiest to fit, but they get dirty right away and then your stuck. Don't be too picky, but make sure you get the size you want." "Thanks for the advice" said James. "Anytime." he said offering his hand, "My name's Isaac." "I'm Jacob" said James or "JJ" he added slightly less awkwardly than before.  
	Self consciously James followed Isaac's advice giving his size and asking for a dark shirt. He tried on the new clothes in another room. The pants fit but the shirt sleeves were a bit long. He would just keep his sleeves rolled up.  
	Leaving the dressing room, he found the door to the men's dormitory. Next to the door was posted "Resident Rules and Responsibilities." The document listed 23 rules for behavior in the shelter. James read number 5, "Residents are limited to two large or three small bags of belongings." and number 16, "No public display of affection will be tolerated" and number 23, "Violation of any rule may result in disciplinary action and the dismissal from the shelter." 
	The dormitory was one large room that seemed to take up most the building's second floor. It was almost entirely filled with cots neatly organized in a rectangle of rows and columns.  
	Just inside the door, he heard Isaac who had come in behind him.  "Hey JJ, follow me. I'll show you were to get a bed sheet and blanket." After James and Isaac had received their bedding, Isaac asked to see James's bed assignment. The number "36" was printed on the slip. "That's over by the coke machine a few rows in." he pointed. "I'll show you." "That's okay" said James. "I am sure I can find it myself." 
	James quickly figured out the pattern of numbers which ran down one column and then up the next. Finding his assigned cot, he sat down and took a moment to take in his surroundings. Many, like him, were just arriving and getting themselves settled in, though in the cot next to his, less than two-feet away, a man was already lying asleep fully clothed.  
	James easily spied the men from the plaza. They were assembled in one corner of the room. Even in the shelter they stood out. Apparently they had already found a topic of contention and were discussing it with much excitement. He wondered how often the rule that specifically prohibited, "fighting, arguing and petty bickering" was enforced.  
	A few minutes later Isaac was sitting next to him on his cot. He tried to recall if he had read any rules that prohibited sitting on other people's cots. Isaac complained about about how someone had stolen his radio last week. The story initially seemed straight forward enough but as the list of characters grew, the plot became harder to follow and James began to wonder if the story really did even involve a stolen radio.  
	As Isaac told his story, James looked at Isaac's hands which mostly sat quietly in his lap though occasionally flew up to emphasize an particularly important point.  On his hands were ridges and bumps that pushed up tight against his skin in various shades of pink, remnants of injuries that had been left to heal untended as well as a few cuts still healing. James could identify only one scar on his own hands. A thin white line on the back of his left hand caused by a glass bottle that slipped out of his hand when he was a teenager.  
	At 10pm the lights were turned out. James lay in his cot. Canvas slung from two sides it provided little freedom for movement, but the dramatic change in routine had temporarily caught his usual anxieties off guard and sleep came easily to him that night.  
	At 6am the lights came on to a chorus of groans and a couple of angry shouts. The man who had been sleeping next to James when he arrived remained asleep. Everyone had to be out by 7am so there was a lot of shuffling around.  
	It was not until James and the other guests had spilled out onto the street that he remembered that he had not eaten breakfast. He was hungry since his only dinner had been a couple of peanut butter and jelly sandwiches at the shelter. He looked for Isaac, the one friendly face he knew but could not find him. He approached a man who had just come out of the door behind him and asked him where he could get breakfast. The man suggested Rachel's Kitchen which provided a hot breakfast seven mornings a week and said that James could follow him there. Many of the other guests seemed to be headed in the same direction.  
	The man's name was Constantine. He had lived his whole life in the city. He had owned a small construction company until the downturn in the economy.  The company had debts that he could not pay and he was never able to recover his business. He had been living in and out of shelters for the past two years.  
	Rachel's Kitchen was in the first floor of an old stone church. A young woman greeted James at the entrance. She seemed not much older than his own daughter. The kitchen and dinning area was one open room separated by a counter. The food was served by young women and men. James guessed that they were probably students from the local college.  Unable to find a seat by himself James ended up squeezed in next to a man whose animated body commanded more than its fair share of space making it difficult for James to get food into his mouth with his right hand and finally giving up he ate with his left.  
	Leaving Rachel's Kitchen James stood on the sidewalk as the other patrons filed out around him. The morning sun just now pushing over the horizon cast long shadows down the street and felt warm against his back. As he stood, he thought about his day. There was lunch, then dinner and then the shelter.  He pulled a of slip of paper from his pocket that he had gotten from the woman who greeted him at the entrance to the kitchen. It listed the addresses and hours for meals held around the city. As long as he got in line for the shelter by 6:30pm, he thought he would be fine.  
	James turned toward the center of the city and started walking. He passed kids on their way to school. He passed a man walking his dog. He passed early risers entering the shops while the vendors were still raising their awnings. His attention rarely wandered from what was immediately in front of him.  
	Over the next few days, he learned where and when to get meals. The days passed barely noticed and if you had asked him what the thought about he could not have told you. At night though when it was finally quiet in the shelter, he found himself thinking about his childhood which entailed replaying the dozen or so familiar scenes which were all that remained.  
	It was more than a week, before the memories of his son began creeping back into his consciousness. But unlike before where they provided a seductive place to wallow, they now pulled him into their depths. Disengaged from his role as husband, father, and employee, a role which no matter how poorly he performed still provided a healthy bulwark against the raw emotions of life, they would now leave him crying in the middle of the day on a public bench.  
	And then there was the rain. The first time it rained since he had arrived at the shelter, he was on his way to Rachel's Kitchen for breakfast.  The rain came suddenly and he dodged into a nearby subway entrance along with other pedestrians who had been caught unprepared. One woman, quickly fished an umbrella from her bag and was back on her way. Three kids hastily changed plans and continued down the stairs through the turnstiles and onto the subway platform. A couple called for a cab and stood at the entrance waiting expectantly.  
	James just waited. He stood near the wall just before the stairs. A steady flow of people continued into the station. They arrived damp under the entrance, shook off their umbrellas and hoods and then made their way down.  James just stood and looked through the stream of morning commuters at the two people standing opposite him.  They were also from the shelter and had been on their way to Rachel's for breakfast as well.  He recognized them, but had never spoken to them. They did not look back at him. They were preoccupied rifling through one of their bags.  
	James wanted to be anywhere else but trapped inside the entrance to a subway station. He felt angry at the pair across from him who had finished going through their bag and were now just standing there. Why wouldn't they look back at him? "Help" he wanted to scream at them, "Tell me the way out!" It was, he felt, as if they were intentionally letting him suffer, but to what purpose, he could not imagine. Finally giving up, he let his back slide down the wall and sat resting against the wall and waited.  
	After his second week at the shelter, one of the social workers, began asking James if he was looking for a job. She implied that it would be difficult to continue staying at the shelter if he did not start looking and that if he did get a job, the shelter would expect him to start paying a small portion of his income to stay there each night. James was not sure he could follow the logic in this, but did not see the wisdom in challenging her.  
	During the day he sometimes passed help wanted signs in the windows of restaurants but never inquired about the job. He would come back tomorrow he told himself, but he never did. Mostly he just wandered the streets through a constant stream of people on their way to work, to lunch, to shop completing a billion tiny tasks that together endlessly constructed the world he saw around him.  
	One late afternoon as he walked through the city park, he saw a man a woman approaching him. The man was walking a bicycle. James recognized him as the man from the accident. He was the one who had pulled the driver from the car and the one who had taken his bike. He was sure of it.  
	As the couple passed, James stopped and turned. He wanted to say something, but could not think of what to say. Instead he decided to follow them. He followed them for what seemed like a couple of miles out from the city center, away from the large buildings into neighborhoods of streets lined with houses. They finally stopped at a small house that sat in a row of equally small houses each in need of some minor repair from pealing paint to a broken window. James stood near a tree slightly out of view and watched as they entered the house bringing the bike inside.  
	With no real plan, James walked up to the house and knocked on the door.  After less than a minute a woman answered.  She opened the door just wide enough for her body to fill the gap and looked down at him. He recognized her from the accident as well. She had been with the group of four cyclists at the accident. She did not seem to recognize him.  "Can I help you?" she asked. "I was at the accident." he said. "What accident?" she asked. "The one where your friend beat up the driver" he said. She looked at him without responding. "The driver who hit your friend's bike. I was in front of the car as well. Your friend took my bike." he added.  
	Her expression eased into a smile. "Well that wasn't very nice of him." she said as she leaned comfortably into the door frame. "No" he said. For a moment neither of them spoke. "So, are you here to get your bike back?" she asked "No, no, not that" said James. "Than what is it?" "Could I come in?" "Come in the house?" she said surprised by his request.  "Well, my mother taught me to never let a strangers in the house." she added. "My name is James." he extended his hand and waited expectantly and then let it fall to his side.  "Don't you belong somewhere?" she asked "Isn't there someone waiting up for you with milk and cookies" "No." he said. "I have been living in a shelter.  Though now it is probably too late for me to get a bed for the night." "You don't look like you live in a shelter." James just shrugged.  "Why do you want to come in?" she asked. She waited for an answer, James didn't have an answer so he didn't give one. Finally, she said "Well, one of us is probably going to regret this." and opened the door wide enough for him to pass easily under her arm.  
	Cautiously James entered into a sparsely decorated living room lit only by the remaining light of the day. On the wall hung four bikes. Two men stood talking near the entry to the kitchen.  
	Closing the door behind him, the woman turned toward the two men and said "Jay. Nick.  This is James. He thinks one of you stole his bike." "Stole his bike?" Jay laughed as he turned toward their new guest. "We're not bike thieves." he added more seriously and then looking at James more closely, said "Oh wait, I remember you.  You're the guy who stood with us that night the car hit my bike." 
	Jay walked over to James and looking down at him asked. "What are you doing here?" "I am not sure." "That is not much of a answer." Jay smirked "Do you want your bike back?" "No" said, Angela the woman who had let him in, "We already went over that." 
	"Curious fellow." said Jay to no one in particular. "How did you find us?" asked Angela. "I recognized you in the park and followed you home." "Huh" said Jay "...and now we are back to the question of why. A question which seems to have no answer." 
	"What were you doing there that night?" asked Nick who was now standing next to Jay. "I was just out for a bike ride." "You weren't with the others?" "No" said James. "Is that why you stood when the light turned green?" asked Jay "I guess." said James. "Weren't you afraid?" "No" said James. "Well, you should have been." 
	"Do you have something against cars?" Angela asked. James paused and then said "My son was killed by a car." "Oh" said Jay. "I'm sorry. What happened?" "He was walking home from school.  He was only eleven years old and..." James tried to go on but could not stop a welling of tears from pouring down his cheeks. Another woman entered the house. When she saw James, she mouthed to the others, "What is going on?" "Dice, this is James." said Angela.  
	That night, James ate dinner with Jay, Angela, Nick and Dice. After dinner they made a bed for him on the back porch. It was the first time he had slept alone in weeks.  
	After James had retreated to the porch, Angela sat in the kitchen repairing the cleat in one of her cycling shoes. Dice sitting across from her asked "So why again are we letting this guy stay in our house?" Angela, still focused on the cleat answered "I don't know, but he has no where else to go." she then stopped looked up at Dice. "He also implied he might go to the police." "Did he say that?" asked Dice "No, but he was there when Jay beat up the guy." "Since when were we scared of the police?" asked Dice.  Angela nodded and then shrugged her shoulders "Well, maybe it is just nice to be wanted." At this Dice gave a short laugh. "So if he stays, he rides?" said Dice both as a question and a statement.  "Yeah, I guess so." said Angela. "And what if he can't make it?" asked Dice. "Well, then I guess he can't make it." 
	The next morning James woke to find Dice in the kitchen. "Where is everyone else?" James asked. "They have all gone to work. My shift starts in about an hour, so I will be leaving soon as well." "What do you do?" asked James "I work as a nurse in an emergency room. I help put people back together again after they break." she said leaning against the counter, a cup of coffee warming her hands and face. "Are you planning to stay here?" she asked. "Sure." said James as if her question were an invitation. "Well, if you are going to stay here, you are going to need to work as well." she looked at him. "I guess going back to selling insurance is out. What other skills do you have?" 
	James wasn't sure. In high school during the summer, he had worked at a movie theater. At college he received a break on his tuition in exchange for calling alumni to ask for money. He was not very good at it.  He had had a few jobs after college and before he started working for insurance companies, but none that called out any specific skills, at least, none that he could name. "Well, they always need dishwashers at Jay's diner. He should be able to hook you up with a job there in a few days." "What does Jay do?" James asked. "He is a cook. He keeps people fed." she smiled.  
	"Do you have plans?" asked Dice. "For today? No." said James. "Well, there is no use just hanging around the house. You know how to cook right?" James nodded uncertainly. "Alright let me make this simple." she grabbed a box of pasta from the shelf.  
	Not having to leave, James spent the entire day in the house by himself. As there was no television or radio that he could find, he spent the morning reading a novel he found on a shelf. He made himself some lunch and then went back to reading but fell asleep. He woke close to 5pm and was suddenly nervous that he would not be able to get dinner ready in time.  
	Jay was the first to arrive home. "Looks like you are still here." Jay said as he walked into the kitchen.  James, not sure how to respond just smiled and shrugged his shoulders. "It also looks like Dice put you to work." "She gave me some instructions for making dinner." Jay looked in a pot, "Tomato sauce.  Hmm and I presume we will be having spaghetti as well." "And a salad." added James hoping that Jay did not disapprove. "Well it is a meal, and I don't have to worry about you taking over my job at the restaurant any time soon." Jay said as he put a pot on the stove to boil water for tea.  
	Steeping his tea, Jay sat at the kitchen table and leaned back in his chair.  "So we steal your bike and then you make us dinner, seems like a good deal." "You needed to get away." James said, without looking up. "And we left you there." "You didn't know me." "Do we know you now?" 
	James thought about the question for a moment and then asked "What were you all doing there that night?" "We were out for a ride, James. Same as you." Jay sipped his tea. James considered the answer and then turned from carefully slicing carrots, "Why did you hit the driver?" "The driver?" Jay smiled, "Because he deserved it." coming forward on his chair, his arms now resting on the table. "He poked me in the eye, so I poked him back." He took another sip of tea. "I'm only human after all." "Only human?" Nick exclaimed as he came into the kitchen "It is, by far, your most endearing trait." Jay laughed.  
	"Besides, what about you?" Jay asked as he stood pouring more water for tea "Isn't that why you found us? Isn't that why you are here?" "Because these machines, these massive hulks of steel roam our city. They line every street. They fill parking lots and driveways. They dominate our urban landscape more than trees or parks or humans. Because they ride on miles of black asphalt where nothing can grow and nothing can live, where kids can't play, where even the very rain that gives us life is shunted away from its natural course back to the earth so that nothing, nothing stands in their way.  Because they kill. Because inside each 4000 lb hulk of steel is a tiny misguided and misshapen human form, atrophied from years of disuse." Jay paused and smiled, "I was only trying to save him from himself before it was too late." 
	That evening after dinner, Nick brought James down into the basement. It was dark but James could make out a few storage shelves on which sat various objects that had been placed many years ago and forgotten. The ceiling was low enough that Nick needed to duck between beams. They came to a corner where Nick turned on a light. Here was a workshop with a workbench and wall of well labeled tools. In the middle stood a heavy metal stand.  
	There were a few bike frames hanging on the wall and bike wheels hanging from the ceiling. There was a filing cabinet with drawers labeled with names of bike parts, some of which he recognized and some he just figured sounded like the names of bike parts. It was a collection that Nick had gathered from where he worked, from friends and from the street.  
	"If you are going to stay with us, you are going to need a bike." Nick said holding onto one of the frames on the ceiling. "What happened to my old bike?" asked James. Nick snorted a laugh, "Jay gave it to a neighborhood kid as soon as we got home. Anyway, it would not have worked." He picked up a wrench that had been left on the workbench and hung it against a matching shape on the tool rack.  
	Turning back to James, "You will need to build your own bike and it will need to be fast...if you are to survive." He leaned his arms against a rafter. "It will need to be no less than a pair of wings. On it you will ride faster than is humanly possible." he laughed "You don't believe me and why should you, but it is true." 
	James stood with his hands in his pockets not knowing Nick long enough to be certain he was being serious.  
	"What do you know about bikes?" Nick asked. James said had bought his bike at a bike shop near his house.  He was told it was a commuter bike, but he did not commute on it. He was told that many of the parts on the bike were good because they were light. The salesman had him lift the bike before he bought it. This was supposed to indicate to James that his bike was, in fact, light, but it felt no lighter than what he expected a object of that size should feel. He said that he had learned to patch a flat but was never confident that he did it correctly and sometimes still brought it to the shop to get a flat fixed.  
	"You must first forget what you were told in the bike shop. We will not be concerned with the weight of the bike or even the individual components or with fancy materials or with whatever else the salesman told you. This is not to say we could start with any old piece of steel. Your frame must have good bones, but good bones are not hard to find." 
	"Take this frame for example." Nick lifted an old bike frame down from its hook on the ceiling. Examining it he said, "I can make out the brand but not the model. Japanese manufacture." He rested the frame on the workbench.  "Mass produced some 30 years ago, it emerged from a factory as one of tens of thousands of frames.  Whatever humans actually worked on its production were trained, against their nature, to perform their task as rote. The goal, a perverse form of perfection in which the products are mechanically identical, sterile and effete. In truth, this frame entered the world as merely a prototype of perfection, an empty canvas for the hand of man." 
	Nick picked up the frame again and handed it to James. "Look at the frame carefully. What do you see?" Not sure what Nick was getting at he commented "It looks old. The paint is scratched. I can see rust here" pointing to an area of pealing paint near the top of the seat post. Turning the frame over in his hand he said, "I can even see what looks like a small dent or nick on this tube." "Yes" said Nick, "The hand of man is messy, haphazard and sometimes artful, but above all it is human." 
	"Tomorrow, we will be begin." Nick shut off the light and they headed back upstairs.  
	For the next few days, James followed Nick down to the basement after dinner. Nick would hand James a part from his collection. He would describe to James the history of the part, who gave it to him or how he found it. He would carefully describe its proper usage. He would show James how to disassemble and clean each part before bolting or threading it onto his bike. He would often have James add and remove a part many times before he was satisfied with how it fit. Sometimes he would have James remove multiple parts placing them all back on the bike in a different order until, as Nick put it, "there is a seamless transition of power from from leg to pedal, from pedal to crank arm, from crank arm to chain ring, from chain ring to chain, from chain to cassette, from cassette to bearings, from bearings to spokes, from spokes to rim, from rim to tire and from tire to road." 
	A few days later as James and Jay finished drying the last of the dishes from dinner, Nick started taking the bikes down from their rack on the wall. As James left the kitchen, Dice stopped him and said "You ready to go?" "Go where?" James asked. "Where we going Nick?" "Where the Heffalumps are." Nick smiled. Dice pointed to the basement door, "Go get your bike." 
	When James rolled his bike into the living room, everyone was getting dressed in a way that seemed to indicate that this was more than just a bike ride. Nick and Dice were wearing helmets, dark and slim. Angela tossed James a jacket made from heavy dark fabric and said "You might want this." James put the jacket on, but it fell loose on his frame.  Angela adjusted it's straps as best she could and then stood back and chuckled "Don't worry, you'll grow into it." James noticed that the same jacket fit tight on her shoulders, chest and waist. He also noticed that Jay was strapping what looked like a large blunt hammer to the frame of his bike.  
	They all carried their bikes outside into the cool dark night. Standing next to the curb, they mounted their bikes. Absent were any red and white lights similar to the kind that he had put on his bike after a woman had yelled at him from her car one night. Also absent were any reflective bands or vests typical of urban cyclists.  
	As the pulled away from the curb and merged into darkness, Angela turned to James and said, "Just stay close and do exactly as we do." Jay, riding just in front of James, called back, "And make sure you keep up." "I'll try." James said.  
	They rode along at an easy pace. James had no trouble keeping up. They headed toward the city with each of the four taking the lead at various points. They generally rode in a single file, but when there was room, they opened up riding two abreast. For the most part no one spoke.  
	Once they entered the city proper, they seemed to follow no particular direction but wandered from one street to another. James relieved from the task of thinking about where he was going, calmly watched the city settle into its evening routine.  
	As they approached a crosswalk, Angela who was in lead signaled for the group to slow as a woman began to cross. Behind James a sport truck blasted its horn, frustrated by having to slow down for the bikes in the road. It gunned its engine and swerved into the other lane, passing the bikes.  Not seeing the woman in the crosswalk, it narrowly missed her.  Immediately, all four cyclists were up and out of their saddles and accelerating quickly toward the truck as it drove away.  
	Sensing danger the truck dodged through traffic, swerving into the opposite lane to pass slower moving vehicles. Easily slipping between cars, the bicycles were able to keep pace, but still they were moving fast, impossibly fast it seemed to James and he quickly began to fall behind.  Approaching a red light, the truck turned sharply right, skidding onto a side street, its back end scraped against a car on the opposite side of the street.  
	On the small side street, Jay stood off his saddle and accelerated up to the driver's side of the truck. He raised his hammer and smashed the driver side window. The driver lost control of the truck and for a moment it swerved left almost hitting Jay. Taking advantage of the momentary gap, Dice had moved up to the passenger side of the truck and Nick moved in just behind it. Using her left arm, Dice swung her ice pick down into the front right tire well. Wedged between tire and well, the axe punctured the tire and it burst. At the same moment, Nick threw his spear through the truck's rear window shattering the glass.  
	The combination of blows caused the truck to swerve further to the right.  It collided with a parked car and then fell forward on its crippled front wheel. It flipped on to its side and slid for about 50 yards finally coming to a stop in the middle of the quiet street, its wheels still spinning helplessly in the air.  
	The riders quickly surrounded the vehicle. They raised their retrieved axes, hammers and spears, and shouted feral cries of victory.  The driver mostly unharmed crawled out through the broken front windshield.  Slightly dazed and confronted by the wild cyclist, he ran from the scene.  
	They all four gathered around the front of the truck. James, who had finally caught up, now joined them though barely able to catch his breath.  The truck lay still except for its engine which coughed and sputtered.  Jay opened the hood of the truck to expose the engine. He reached in, grabbed a fuel line and pulled out one end. Fuel gurgled from the line, wet Jays fist and spilled onto the road. The engine gave one last cough and died.  
	Jay walked over to James and placed his fuel soaked thumb on James's lips.  He pressed his thumb against James's lips and then into James's mouth so that James could taste the acrid and oily fuel. "Distilled the bodies of a thousand beasts." he smiled and then laughed. Jay rubbed his thumb against the inside of James's mouth like a mother soothing a teething baby's gums.  Jay removed his thumb and he then tasted the fuel from his own fingers.  Dice, Nick and Angela all reached into the engine, wet their own hands then licked the fuel from their fingers.  
	In the distance they heard the sound of sirens. Their wail slowly winding up and down as firetrucks and police cars began to make their way to the scene of the accident. Mounting their bikes, they all rode home in silence.  
	The next day no one talked about what happened. Jay went to the restaurant.  Nick went to the bike shop. Dice to the hospital. James was now washing dishes at the same restaurant where Jay worked.  
	A few nights later Nick again started taking bikes down from the wall. "You ready to go?" he asked James. James did not respond. "Don't worry, sometimes we just ride." 
	The night was warm. They rode quietly. James tried to relax and enjoy the night, but felt that at any moment everything could change.  Turning onto a wide street the group suddenly picked up their pace. They were riding fast, but not so fast that James could not keep up. Then just as suddenly, they slowed back down. Although he was winded he felt good that he was able to keep up.  
	As they started to head toward home rain began to fall. Within seconds a heavy cool rain was drumming down on the hard warm pavement.  James was instantly soaked. The others sat up in their saddles taking their hands off their handlebars, their arms raised welcoming the rain onto their bodies.  Jay dropped back next to James. He gestured to the traffic around them and shouted over the rain "Look at them, afraid they are going to melt! Afraid of all that is good in God!" his fist in the air. Then seeing the face of a small boy, his palm pressed against the car window and staring at them in wonder, Jay shook his fist at the child and shouted "Run child run!" and then laughed.  
	Each time they rode, James felt stronger, though one night turning onto an open street the car was fast and free of traffic. James pushed himself until his lungs burned, but he could still feel the others pulling away from him as they headed up a incline and then they disappeared over the crest of a hill. By the time he reached the top of the hill, they were no longer in site. He coasted down the hill still breathing heavy. At the bottom, he stopped and stood over his bike still catching his breath. He waited hopeful that he might see them returning down the street.  
	Discouraged, he got back on his bike and made his way back to the house.  Close to home, he noticed Angela riding next to him. They moved in front of him without saying a word and they all quietly made their way home.  
	The next morning, tired and sore, he found Dice alone in the kitchen.  "Hard night?" she asked leaning against the counter waiting for a pot of water on the stove to boil. "Yeah" he said absently rubbing his upper arm.  "Don't worry, you will get stronger." she smiled. He looked at Dice.  Even resting her body seemed powerful. "Do you want some tea?" she asked.  "Sure." 
	They sat across from each other at a small table in the kitchen. "How long have you all known each other?" James asked. "For a thousand years." Dice smiled. "At least, that is what Nick says. Sometimes, I believe him." she paused. "Angela and I met in high school." "And Nick and Jay?" "I actually don't recall. I think Angela knew Jay first."  
	"Is there a radio in the kitchen?" James asked looking around. "No, why?" "I am just used to listening to the radio in the morning. My wife used to have the news on all day long." "Why?" asked Dice. "I don't know, I guess it is nice to know what is happening in the world." "Do you know what is happening in the world?" Dice asked as she poured tea for both of them.  "No, not now, I mean I haven't been keeping up." 
	Dice sat back down and passed James a cup of tea. "Why do you all do what you do?" asked James "You mean what we do." Dice corrected him as she held her cup blowing steam from the surface. "Because, James, while you have been listening to the news, giant metal creatures have invaded our city." "Huh, yeah, I know." James said as he contemplated Dice's words and wondered if this was something he really knew. "But what good is killing them one at a time?" he asked.  "Even if we went out every night for the rest of our lives, our impact would be so small that no one would even notice that we had been here." "So, what do you suggest?" asked Dice as she leaned her chair back against the wall. "I don't know. Change the system.  Change the world." said James for a moment feeling like this was possible.  "That is quite a grand view." said Dice "But I think you have mistaken yourself for something much larger. If we were the world we would certainly change it, but we are not.  We are just a few of billions of tiny creatures.  Our domain is insignificant in the grand scheme, but it is all that we have. Our only choice is to do what is right or do what is wrong. We simply choose to do what is right." 
	Looking at the dregs swirling in the bottom of his cup, he thought about what Dice had said. His mind hopscotched backwards and then landed on a memory of his daughter. "My daughter used to hate the radio until she realized it could be used to play music and then we could not get her to turn it off." "You have a daughter?" asked Dice letting her chair come to a rest on all four legs. "Yes." "How come you did not mention this before?" "I don't know, I guess no one asked me." James said not sure this was exactly true. "How old is she?" asked Dice "Thirteen." "Don't you miss her?" "To be honest, I...uh..I haven't thought about her much. We did not get along that well." "I don't understand?" said Dice "It was just that as she got older she seemed embarrassed by me or did not want to be around me." "Do you think she misses you?" "I guess not. I mean don't think so." James said staring into a crack in the Formic table. He looked up to see Dice looking at him. "Maybe you should go find out." 
	After finishing his shift at the restaurant that day James found himself riding his bike toward his house. He passed familiar landmarks, the sandwich shop where they ordered pizza, the florist where he went on the rare occasion when he needed flowers, the park where he would take his kids when they were younger. He came to his driveway. It was late. He could see the lights on and tell that his wife and daughter were home. For over an hour he stood there and watched the house. Lights when on and off in different rooms. He caught fleeting glimpses of his daughter and wife as they passed a window. There was now one light left on. He could picture his wife in bed. And then he turned, got back on his bike. It was time to go.  Dice was wrong he thought. No one missed him.  
	He rode quickly down the empty streets of his neighborhood. It was true. He had gotten stronger and faster, but for the moment this new power gave him little satisfaction, and so he pushed harder, as hard as his legs would carry him. He raced past the sandwich shop and park and out of his neighborhood into the city. Alone he moved quickly through the evening traffic passing slower moving cars and trucks on the right and left. And still he felt he could move faster.  
	Coming down over the crest of a hill on a busy street he accelerated aided by the Earth pulling his tiny mass down into its center. Tears streaming from his eyes as cool moist air pushed past him. Near the bottom of the hill a pothole waited. It sat there in the middle of the road. It was so small that it would have registered as no more than a bump under the wheel of a car. But it was now so close that of all the logically infinite permutations of time only one remained.  
	James's front wheel stopped instantly and he was thrown from the bike landing in the opposite lane of traffic. Recovering quickly he pushed himself up off the pavement and forced himself to stand.  He could feel but not locate the pain in his body. Sensing the danger of standing unprotected in the open street, he panicked, but his brain could provide no useful advice, or maybe all the advice he received conflicted in way that the signals perfectly canceled each other out. Either way, he stood without a plan except to watch as the two bright lights from an oncoming car crashed into him. As he lay still in the street, the sound of sirens in the distance began to make their way to another accident.
