From his office window, James watched as a woman across the street yelled
at a man sitting on a bench. He couldn't hear her yell, but he could see
her arms raised and her fists clenched and he could see her mouth open and
her eyes looking down on him as if she might consume him at any moment.
The man looked up at her with only vague interest.

The drama across the street was nothing new. James had seen it play out
everyday since he moved into his office four years ago. The cast of
characters varied throughout the year, though there were a few regulars.
Their numbers increased in the summer months and dwindled in the winter.
He had heard that there was a methadone clinic nearby by way of an
explanation.

They were mostly white, but of assorted shapes, sizes, ages and genders.
They would shout, laugh, gesture, dance, cajole, negotiate, argue, yell and
sometimes even fight, but never to any great effect.  They wore jackets,
pants, sun dresses and skirts, and held hand bags and cell phones just like
everyone else, but they were not like everyone else.

Their lives were not punctuated by the usual changes of venue associated
with work day, evening and weekend.  Their lives unfolded continuously in
this one location each day from morning to night like actors on a perpetual
stage playing for no one but James or so it seemed to him, for no one else
ever seemed to notice them.  

What amazed James most was that they were always engaged in conversations,
often of apparently vital importance. James wondered what could be so
important. What dramatic conflict was mounting or being resolved in lives
that seemed to have no external consequence. By contrast, James's generally
found any conversation lasting more than twenty minutes usually required
work.

As he looked out his window and watched, his thoughts drifted to his son.
For the past year, he had looked out his window and thought about his son.
For the past year, he has also done so little work, that he felt he should
have been fired or, at the very least, moved to a desk without a window. He
could only assume that his manager felt sorry for him and that when she
weighed the emotional cost of firing him against monetary cost of his lack
of productivity, he came out slightly ahead. He wasn't planning to argue
with her on this point.

Someone had once told him that after a year, you either move on or you
don't.  James was not moving on. A year ago, James's son was hit by car and
killed as he was walking home from school. The driver was not drunk or
senile, just careless and young.

That evening at home as he brushed his teeth before going to bed, he
listened to the sound of traffic outside the open bathroom window. He could
easily make out the individual vehicles, a truck then a bus, then a series
of cars going up or down the street. In most cases, it was not the sound of
the car's engine or any sort of mechanical noise that he heard, but the
woosh the car made as it pushed through the air, creating waves like the
wake from a boat that entered his house through windows and walls and
expended its energy against everything in its path. 

That night he woke in the dark. For the past week, he had been waking in
the dark, sometimes hours before sunrise. Often he could just fall back
into sleep but some nights he lay awake for hours having strayed too far
across the barrier of consciousness to easily find his way back. He got up
and went to the bathroom. Standing by the open window in the early morning
there was no longer the sound of cars passing his house, but the quiet only
revealed the more subtle but constant drone of traffic from an expressway
across town.  Listening carefully, he tried make out the distinguishing
characteristics of a truck downshifting or a motorcycle gunning its engine,
but the noise from the distant stream of vehicles just merged into a single
endless tone.

The next morning, James stood waiting to cross his street to catch the bus
to work. It seemed to take even longer than usual to find a break in the
traffic.  First there was traffic on one side of the street and then on the
other.  When the street was finally clear on both sides he started across,
but just then a car came out from a side street moving in his direction.
Instead of walking back to the sidewalk, he just stopped where he was in
the street and waited for the car to pass in front of him.  But this car
was followed by another and now there was now a car coming toward him in
the lane where he was standing. He didn't move. He just stood there and
waited.  The car coming toward him stopped and within a short time more
cars backed up behind it. There were still cars traveling on the opposite
side of the street, and so he just stood there.  

After about twenty seconds, one of the cars began to honk, but James did
not move. He began to feel as though he couldn't move as though he
needed to be there, as though he were now a fixture in the pavement.
Even when there was break in the traffic on the other side of the
street, he just stood there. A few cars tried to dart around him. James
just stood there looking straight ahead. And as he stood there he
started to smile to himself. He smiled at how fragile the whole system
suddenly seemed. He smiled at how one man standing in one lane of a
street could, in only a few minutes, cause cars to back up farther then
he could see.

He also thought about his neighbors watching him. He thought about the
people in the cars watching him. He wondered if anyone he knew could see
him standing there in the street. He wondered what they would think. He
figured they would just think he was crazy. Not a bad assumption he
thought.

A few minutes later he heard a siren. He was certain someone was coming to
remove him from the street. He felt some relief that there was now a
definite resolution to his situation, one from which he seemed unable to
extricate himself. He almost smiled as he noticed the difficultly the
police car had getting through the traffic, but thought it best not to
betray any emotion.

The police car stopped near him and the officers both got out. One started
to direct traffic around him and the other came over to ask if he was okay.
He said he was and the officer asked if he would mind moving back to the
side walk. James agreed and walked off the street escorted by the officer.

The officer asked him why he was standing in the street and he said he
didn't know. He said he was tired and confused. Looking toward his house,
he could see his wife and daughter inside. He could see them watching him
from behind the curtain.

The officer did not feel the need to site James for any violation, but
walked him back to his house where his wife Sarah had come out to meet
them on the steps. The officer suggested to Sarah that she take James to
the emergency room so that he could be evaluated. She agreed and they went
back inside.

Sarah asked James if he was okay. James said that he was just trying to
cross the street, and got stuck halfway, not sure what to do. He said he
hadn't very slept well for the past few nights. It was the kind of
explanation that only made sense if you wanted it to make sense. Sarah
looked at him without saying anything. James said he was fine and headed
off to work again, but agreed to walk down to the intersection and cross at
the crosswalk.

That evening when he got home from work he found Sarah in the kitchen
making dinner. His daughter had gone to a friend's house for the night. He
felt relieved by her absence. His relationship with his daughter was
strained enough without the awkward events of the morning. He could
remember a time when she would run to hug him as soon as he came in the
door. Those days were long gone. He had heard that the change in their
relationship was just typical adolescent behavior, but he could not help
thinking that it was somehow his fault.

He sat at the table in the kitchen while his wife cut carrots for the
salad. He could smell the lasagna cooking in the oven. The radio was on and
tuned to the local news channel. He scanned the newspaper looking for a
potential topic of conversation. He read that there were plans to shutdown
a local coal power plant. The governor was refusing to negotiate with
striking teachers. Neither of these stories sparked much of a conversation
beyond the headlines themselves. Sarah said she had talked with her sister,
who was getting divorced and considering moving back to the city to be near
them. 

After dinner they stood in the kitchen cleaning up after the meal. The
radio remained on. The host reviewed the days events from around the world.
As they worked quietly their thoughts never strayed too long on any one
path before being interrupted by a calm voice explaining the misdeeds of a
politician in a country that James could not find on a map.

After they finished, James said that he wanted to go for bike ride. Sarah
said "Okay." But James wondered if it was really okay. Maybe she wanted him
to stay and be with her, but said okay because she did not want to start a
fight. Maybe she said okay because she would rather be alone. James decided
to take it a face value. If there was more to it than that, he preferred
not to know.

It was early summer and the days were long. He walked his bike to the end
of the driveway and instead of trying to cross the traffic, he set off in
its flow. He had only recently taken up riding a bike again. The last time
he owned a bike was in college. He still felt nervous riding in the street,
never sure where he belonged, usually feeling either too close to the cars
in the street or too close to the cars parked on the side of the road.

He imagined frustration in every driver that passed him. Sometimes people
even yelled out their window telling him to get on the sidewalk.

As he headed further into the city buildings replaced sky, traffic lights
commanded attention, and cars, buses and trucks jockeyed for advantage as
they made their way along the two and three lanes of the avenue. Traveling
along the side of the road James glanced at his watch.  It was getting late
and he felt he should turn back soon. 

As he looked for place to turn around he began to hear from behind people
shouting, whooping and ringing bells. The noise quickly closed in on him
and he found himself surrounded by bicycles. The riders appeared young and
tough and sounded harsh and loud.  They wore clothes of denim and leather
and shinny studs of metal. A few of them smiled at him as if inviting him
to join their fun, but most just ignored him. They were focused the on the
attention of the world around them.

The group of around twenty cyclists had created a space for itself within
the flow of traffic, displacing no more than two or three drivers and yet
creating anxiety in the drivers around them who did not know how to deal
with the foreign object in their midst. James fell easily into the center
of the group, where insulated from the traffic by a barrier of bikes, he
felt safe and calm. He forgot about his plans to head home.

Approaching a traffic light, the group stopped. James stopped with them.
Some of the riders stood over their bikes, but others continued to ride
around in circles, as if possessed by the momentum of the group. As they
waited for the light to change, the car directly behind them honked its
horn and the cyclist's answered with shouts and bells and jeers. The car
honked again and again the group responded with more noise. The light was
still red.  The group began to focus its attention on the car answering
each honk with increased attention. Finally, the driver leaned out of his
window and yelled, "Get the hell out of the road."

As the light turned green, most of the group moved on but four of the
riders, two women and two men who had been circling continued to circle in
front of the car. James stayed with them standing over his bike in the lane
and in front of the car and looked ahead. This time he was not alone.  The
car gunned its engine and leaned on its horn and then it pushed forward
into one of bikes knocking the rider off.  The rider jumped up, picked up
his bike and threw it at the front window of the car crushing the
windshield. He and a second rider were quickly at the drivers side of the
car. One of them, swinging a large hammer smashed the driver side window as
the driver tried to close it. The other reached in, yanked the door open
with enough strength that it appeared to break from its hinges. He grabbed
the driver, pulled him from the car and threw him into the street. He
picked up the driver and threw him to the ground again. Then he picked him
up once more and punched him hard. The driver fell to the street and lay
not moving.

At the same time, the woman had moved into the drivers seat. One of the
riders thrust a large metal bar into the grill of the car and tore open the
hood. Another swung what looked to James like a sledge hammer from over her
head and then down into the engine releasing a loud hissing noise and
causing the motor to sputtered and cough.  

All four riders than joined together on one side of the car and began
rocking it up and down. The woman jumped from the passenger side of the car
and stood screaming. Together they rocked the car up and then over onto its
side and then on its roof, where it lay immobile releasing steam and smoke.

James just stood over his bike and watched. 

They began to hear the wail of a siren in the distance. Three of the riders
returned to their bikes. The other man whose bike had been damaged by the
car walked over to James looked at him for a moment smiled and then pushed
him hard to the ground.  He picked up James's bike and got on it. The other
women picked up the man's damaged bike and hoisted it over her shoulder in
a way that seemed to defy its weight. All four rode off together.

When James stood up a woman was yelling at him. The driver of the car was
lying on the ground and not moving. The woman from the car was next to the
man on the ground and crying. A young man was consoling the woman from the
car, another man and woman were attending to the driver, an older man was
trying to keep back the crowd that had formed. Out of seemingly nowhere,
all these people had appeared filling the necessary roles in the dramatic
scene that unfolded around him, as if trained actors walked hidden among
pedestrians.

James turned to leave. The woman continued to shout at him but remained
where she stood, reluctant to leave her place on the stage. The crowd
hesitantly made way for his exit, uncertain of their own role in the
performance.

As he made his way down the street, the scene of the accident slowly
faded behind him and into the general wash of the city. He became aware
of a throbbing in his hand from where he had landed on it when he fell.
He looked at his hand. Newly dried blood covered the scraped skin. He
noticed that his shirt sleeve was torn and there was bike grease on his
pants. All of which would raise questions in the light of day, but
cloaked in the night he would remain inconspicuous.

He was a long way from home but he was in no rush to get there. The day had
accumulated more than its share of notable events that needed time to be
sorted and filed among the layers of daily debris that made up his
conscious and unconscious self.

Away from the accident, his attention was drawn to the scenes that
played out around him in the late hours of night. Two boys and a girl
walked in his direction, young and drunk, a lazy knot of arms that swayed
and laughed as they made their way past. A man argued with a bouncer in
front of a night club while a line of people behind him, anxious and bored,
waited their turn to enter. Across the street, a group of boys hopped,
danced and spun down the sidewalk with aimless bravado.  A car with girls
inside drove by. The boys shouted for their attention. Between them a
bottle was tossed and broke in the street, but from which party, James
could not tell. James wondered what he shared with these people.

As James neared his home, hungry and reluctant to let the day end, he
decided to stop at a sandwich shop and get a slice of pizza. Inside a
young couple sat at a booth next to the window. The boy ate a bowl of
spaghetti and meatballs in a watery tomato sauce and the girl watched a
television set behind his head. In another booth an older man had fallen
asleep, but bothering no one, he was left alone. 

Two men in aprons worked behind the counter. Olive complexion, dark
hair, short in stature with forearms thick from generations of use.  One
called to the other in a language the James did not understand.  James
assumed they were brothers and that they were from Italy or Greece. The
girl pointed to something on the television. The boy turned to look,
nodded and then went back to his bowl of spaghetti. James placed his
order. The man handed him his change. James wanted to say something
more. He wanted to ask him a question about where he was from or maybe
how long he had worked there.  He had been to the shop many times before
during the day and had seen other customers chat informally with the men
behind the counter. But all James could do was take his change and say
"Thank you."

It was close to 2am when he finally turned onto his street. As he
approached his house he stopped suddenly and then started to run. There
was a police car his the driveway. But when he got to his driveway he
stopped again. The police car was quiet and empty indicating no sense of
emergency and he had already spent enough time with the police today.

He could see the lights of his first floor were on. His mind raced through
what sort of event could have brought them to his house.  There had been
burglaries in the neighborhood. Maybe his house had been robbed.  Then the
image of the man lying motionless in the street came back into his head.
Was it possible that the man was dead?  This was something he had not
considered. Could the police be looking for him?  Could they have found
him? But he had done nothing wrong. And yet a police car sat in his
driveway in the middle of the night.

He was now close enough to his house to see inside. Under the bright
artificial light of his living room, he could see his wife with her back to
him talking to two police officers. The police officers seemed to be
getting information from his wife, but about what, James could not tell.

James then saw the police officers make their way to the door. He looked
for a place to quickly hide, but seeing none, he made his way down the
driveway and out onto the sidewalk where he started walking away from his
house hoping that he could make it to the side street before they noticed
him.

Waiting on the side street, he heard the police car drive off. Instead of
going home, James decided to keep walking. He did not want to talk with his
wife or anyone. The day had already been far too long. He decided to walk
for a half an hour by which time he was sure Sarah would be asleep.

Entering the dark house, he quietly made his way up to their bedroom. His
wife lay under a thin sheet that rose and fell gently with her breath. She
mumbled a word that he could not make out.  He undressed and slipped into
bed next to her. Sleep quickly overcame him putting an end to the long and
difficult day. 

At exactly 7:30, their alarm clock began its steady chime but for more than
three minutes was unable to rouse either James or Sarah. Finally Sarah,
usually a light sleeper, pulled herself out of slumber.  Seeing James lying
next to her, she began to rock him awake saying "James, it is 7:34" and
then, as he sat up and looked at her trying to focus, she asked him, "What
happened to you last night?  When did you get home?" James explained about
the bike accident and that he had walked home. As he told his story, she
examined his wounded hand. Holding it, he watched as she gently traced the
outline of his scraped skin. 

She then looked up at him and asked "Are you alright?" "Yes, I am fine." he
lied. "Why didn't you call me? Don't you think I worry?" she asked.  He
responded that by the time he thought to call she would have been asleep,
an excuse which neither he nor she believed. `	

"I called the police." she said. "Oh" he said. "I didn't know what else to
do." she said looking at him and shaking her head. James did not respond
and for a moment neither of them spoke. "Why are you doing this?" she asked
in a new and serious tone, one that would not be shrugged off or ignored.
He was not surprised or worried by her change in tone. He only wondered why
it had her so long. "Doing what?" he said.  "Don't you know that I feel
everything you feel, that I also think about him every day and that every
time I think about him my heart aches with a pain so deep that I don't know
how I will survive it." She paused looking at him. "Are you going to go on
like this forever?" "I don't want to." He said but was not even sure if
that was true.  "Because I can't take it anymore." she said quietly looking
down at the floor and shaking her head.

For a moment they were both quiet. She looked at his hand again, she had
not stopped holding it. "Does it hurt?" "A little" he said, relieved to
be asked a question that he could answer honestly.

On his way to work that morning, he sat on the bus replaying his morning
conversation with his wife.  Maybe he would not go on like this forever, he
thought hopefully, maybe today would be different. Though he could think of
no evidence to support this hypothesis. He noticed the pain in his hand and
the still fresh memory of the events of yesterday flooded back into his
consciousness.

He made it to work on time. That was one thing you could say for him he
thought as he sat down at his desk at 9am. He was never late for work.  He
looked at the stack of folders that were waiting for him. Each folder
contained an insurance claim that he needed to review. Each claim a
complaint about some minor tragedy and a demand for monetary compensation.
Tragedies that were perpetrated by acts of God or criminals and directed at
the sorts of of objects that could be repaired, rebuilt or replaced, but
never made the same. That was how the world worked, he thought. Nothing
ever returned to its original state.  

His job was to find the flaw in the applicant's story, evidence that their
loss was not as tragic or worthy as claimed and until the accident, he had
been good at his job.

Toward the middle of the afternoon, he got a call from a secretary
requesting that he meet with Denise, the division supervisor, at the end of
the day.  She was his boss's boss. He had only met with her a few times
before. Once when he was first hired.

As he entered her office, she was just finishing a phone call. She
pointed to a seat in front of her desk. After putting down the phone,
she asked him how he was doing. She said she understood that it had been
a very difficult year for him. She looked at him with that same sort of
smile that he had seen on so many other faces as if she were trying to
feel his sadness. It seemed to him an odd human instinct that was both
impossible and pointless.

She lowered her glasses and opened a file on her desk and began to review
his job performance over the past year. She reviewed the numbers of claims
he had processed over various periods of time. Apparently for one six-week
period, he had done absolutely nothing. And then it dawned on him what was
happening. As she continued, he began to have a hard time focusing on what
she was saying. He could hear himself affirming her speech at appropriate
intervals, but to what he was confessing he was not sure.

Although her point was already well made, she seemed compelled to
thoroughly explain the details of how she came to her decision. But to
what end?  James thought. He began to feel as though he was no longer
seated in his chair but a few feet up in the air, looking down at her,
as if he had pulled himself up to a safer vantage point.  She did not
seem to notice.  All he wanted was for the conversation to be over.  He
wanted her to stop. If he had had a white flag he would have waved it.
Finally he heard her say, "I'm sorry." which seemed to indicate that she
was finished. He said "Thank you" and left. 

At his desk, he sat and stared at the stack of unprocessed claims. In a
battle of wills they had won and he had lost. In a few days or weeks,
someone else would be sitting at his desk. The claims would be processed
and the company would once again function properly. 

He picked up a photo of his family that he kept in the top drawer of his
desk and put it in his shirt pocket. He looked around, not sure what
else to take. There was nothing else that was his. 

A few minutes later a security guard who had been standing across the
room came over to him and asked him for his identity badge.  The guard
called him "sir." He knew the guard's name. "Donald" was printed above
the pocket on his uniform, but in all the years at the company James had
never addressed him directly or exchanged more than a simple greeting.
Now did not seem like the time to start.

The guard stood quietly by his desk while James prolonged the
inevitable, looking through his draws and files as if he might find
something of personal value that needed to take with him. Finally giving
up, Donald escorted him out of the building and before closing the door
behind him said, "Have an nice evening, sir." 

James stood outside the building squinting into the low sun that peaked out
under dark clouds moving in from the West. Across the street a familiar
woman was laughing. James turned to watch her.  She was laughing in a way
that carried her body forward and then back as she tried to maintain
balance rocking from one foot to the other. "What could she be laughing
at?" James thought. Maybe she was laughing at him.  Maybe she knew that he
had lost his job. Maybe she was, in fact, a siren, who had for the past
year ardently drawn his attention from his work until finally he stood
outside his office, the door closed and locked behind him.

With nowhere else to go, James crossed the street. The woman stopped
laughing. It seemed that her joke had run its course. Her objective
realized she would turn her attention to another unsuspecting employee
who had the misfortune to sit at a desk overlooking the plaza. 

He pulled the picture from his shirt pocket. His family was smiling at him.
What had made them smile, he thought?  Was it just because that is what you
did in pictures? His daughter's smile was missing two front teeth. He could
vaguely remember writing notes to her from the tooth fairy. He wondered if
she every really believed they were real.

He pulled his wallet from his hip pocket. He placed the photo in the
wallet.  He had heard that a wallet found in the mail would be returned to
its owner. He walked to the corner of the plaza and tossed the wallet in a
mailbox. Whatever value it held no longer belonged to him.

He walked back to his bench and sat and cried. The menagerie continued to
dance around him, preoccupied with their own madness. Most of the group was
scattered around the plaza in twos and threes. The remainder flitted about
between these groups pausing for conference as if to find sanity in the
pretence of a larger and more complex social structure.

As he watched them, he wondered where they all went at night. Maybe, he
thought, when darkness fell complete, they just slowly came to a halt, like
windup creatures whose springs had finally exhausted enough energy that
they could no longer overcome the friction of their gears, and stood
resting motionless until their caretaker came round before dawn to wind
them back up again. 

It began to rain, a light but steady rain. Unprepared their world
quickly dissolved as they left their posts and gathered together in the
middle of the plaza. After a brief conference the majority headed off
together downtown. James followed.

They made a cumbersome group moving down the sidewalk. Sometimes three
and four abreast, sometimes spilling into the street. Every couple of
blocks the group would stop to adjust itself, like an old man stopping
to hike up his sagging trousers.

After about dozen blocks, they stopped and joined a line of people waiting
to enter a large rectangular building. The building, efficiently
constructed from poured concrete slabs and bolted steel beams, stood out
among a row of mostly older buildings made from hand laid brick and stone.
James wondered what misfortune had befallen the building that previously
occupied this space.

The rain remained light, but the crowd was anxious to enter the building
before it got worse. James asked the woman in front of him if she knew when
the building opened. The woman turned to face James. For more than a year
he had watched her from afar. Close up she looked older. Her face tan and
course from a life spent outside. Her eyes hung tranquil in their sockets
as if waiting for something to arouse them from their slumber. As James
looked at her face, he tried to imagine her as a new born baby. Everyone
was a new born baby once, he thought.

She said it opened at 7pm and added, "but ya'd think the bastards would
open up a little early with the rain." James agreed. 

At exactly 7pm the doors opened and people began to file in. By then the
line behind James extended to the end of the block. Inside, the lobby
was crowded, bright and humid. It smelled of warm bodies and wet
clothes. On the walls were inspirational posters including one that
showed a man on top of a mountain above the phrase "Make it Happen."

The crowd slowly divided into two groups with men going in one door and
women going in the other. A much smaller line formed in front of third door
under a sign that said "New Guest Intake." A staff person had already
identified James as a new guest and directed him to this line where he
waited with the other new guests.

He instinctively felt in his pocket. Not finding his wallet, he momentarily
panicked before he remembered that he had tossed it in the mailbox. He
wondered if some form of ID would be required to stay in the shelter. He
knew that he would at least need a name and one that was not his own. The
name "Jacob" was the first that popped into his head. It seemed suitable.
"Jacob Jackson" he thought "or JJ for short. He was surprised, new names
were easy.  As he stood in line, he rehearsed his new name.

Inside a private room, James sat across from the councilor who was already
busy filling in a form. Barely looking up at James he asked for some
identification. James said that he did not have any, adding that he had
lost his wallet. The councilor paused looking up from the form. He looked
at James suspiciously over his glasses, "Well it is not a requirement for a
bed in the shelter but it is helpful." he said, not explaining why.
Returning to his form, he asked "First and last name?" "Jacob, Jacob
Jackson, my friends call me JJ." James responded though feeling that out
loud it now sounded awkward.  The councilor continued "Date of birth?"
"Last permanent address?" "Are you taking any medication?" "Are you
presently employed?" "Are you married?" "Are you receiving any treatment
for drug addiction?" James answered the questions with a mix of truth and
fiction. "Who should we contact in case of a medical emergency?" James
paused. "No one." The councilor looked up from the form again. "No
brothers, no sisters, an aunt, a cousin?" he challenged. "No." said James.

The councilor gave James two small slips of paper with a number on them.
One was for his bed assignment and the other for fresh clothing. James
reentered the lobby which had mostly emptied out. A few people, clearly
intoxicated where being directed out of the shelter. A staff member pointed
him toward the door to the men's unit. 

On the door to the men's unit was posted, "Men Only" and "No one under 18
allowed." Directly inside the door on the wall another rule read, "All
residents must take a shower before entering the dormitory" with arrows
leading to the line for the shower.

Waiting in line, James was handed a towel, soap and a toothbrush. The
showers were along one wall of an open stall and were overseen by shelter
staff. Five men stood naked lathering their bodies with soap.  James could
not remember ever seeing a grown man naked before. Devoid of clothing,
their bodies looked comical, lopsided and limp covered in odd patches of
vestigial hair. Watching them James undressed slowly, hesitant to expose
his own body to judgement.

After drying off and wearing only a towel, James was directed to an
adjacent coat room where he could get fresh clothes. Standing in line he
heard a voice behind him, "First time here?" James turned to see a slightly
built older man a few inches shorter than himself. "Yes" said James
uncertain whether he wanted to foster this man's association.  "You should
easily get your size." he said "Me, everything they have is too big. White
shirts are the easiest to fit, but they get dirty right away and then your
stuck. Don't be too picky, but make sure you get the size you want."
"Thanks for the advice" said James. "Anytime." he said offering his hand,
"My name's Isaac." "I'm Jacob" said James or "JJ" he added slightly less
awkwardly than before.

Self consciously James followed Isaac's advice giving his size and asking
for a dark shirt. He tried on the new clothes in another room. The pants
fit but the shirt sleeves were a bit long. He would just keep his sleeves
rolled up. He did not want to get back in line.

Leaving the coat room, he found the door to the men's dormitory. Next to
the door was posted "Resident Rules and Responsibilities." The document
listed 23 rules for behavior in the shelter. James read number 5."Residents
are limited to two large or three small bags of belongings." and number 16.
"No public display of affection will be tolerated" It concluded with
"Violation of any rule may result in disciplinary action and the dismissal
from the shelter."

The dormitory was one large room that seemed to take up most the building's
second floor. It was almost entirely filled with cots neatly organized in a
rectangle of rows and columns.

Just inside the door, he heard Isaac who had come in behind him.  "Hey JJ,
follow me. I'll show you were to get a bed sheet and blanket." When James
and Isaac had their bedding, Isaac asked to see James's bed assignment. The
number "36" was printed on the slip. "That's over by the coke machine a few
rows in." he pointed. "I'll show you." "That's okay" said James wanting to
be by himself. "I am sure I can find it myself."

James quickly figured out the pattern of numbers which ran down one column
and then up the next column. Finding his assigned cot, he sat down and took
a moment to take in his surroundings. Many, like him, were just arriving
and getting themselves settled in, though in the cot next to his, less than
two-feet away, a man was already lying asleep fully clothed.

James easily spied the men from the plaza. They were assembled in one
corner of the room. Even in the shelter they stood out. Apparently they had
already found a topic of contention and were discussing it with much
excitement. He wondered how often the rule listed in "Resident Rules and
Responsibilities" which specifically prohibited, "fighting, arguing and
petty bickering" was enforced.

A few minutes later Isaac was sitting next to him on his cot. He tried to
recall if he had read any rules that prohibited sitting on other people's
cots. Isaac complained about about how someone had stolen his radio last
week. At first, his description of the events seemed simple enough but as
the cast of characters involved increased and suspicion shifted among the
protagonist, James had a hard time following his story and began to wonder
if it really did even involve a stolen radio.

As Isaac spoke, James looked at Isaac's hands which mostly sat quietly in
his lap though occasionally flying up to emphasize an important point.  His
skin was dry and rough, evidence a life unprotected from the elements.  On
his hands there were rough bumps, remnants of cuts that had been left to
heal untended as well as a few cuts still healing. On Jame's hands there
was one scar that stood out. A thin white line caused by a glass bottle
that slipped out of his hand and cut the side of his finger as it fell
against a table.

Even though the cot was not comfortable, James fell asleep quickly that
night. The rapid changes in venue and routine had caught his usual
anxieties off guard and scrambling to keep up with the new state of
affairs.

At 6am the lights came on to a chorus of groans and a couple of angry
shouts. The man who had been sleeping next to James when he arrived
remained asleep. Everyone had to be out by 7am so there was a lot of
shuffling around. 

It was not until James had spilled out onto the street along with the other
guests that he remembered that he had not eaten breakfast. He was hungry
since his only dinner had been a couple of peanut butter and jelly
sandwiches at the shelter. He looked for Isaac, the one friendly face he
knew but could not find him. He looked around for another friendly face.
He approached a man who had just come out of the door behind him and asked
him where he could get breakfast. The man suggested Rachel's Kitchen which
provided a hot breakfast seven mornings a week and said that James could
follow him there. Many of the other guests seemed to be headed in the same
direction.

The man's name was Constantine. He had lived his whole life in the city. He
had owned and managed a small construction company.  Then the downturn in
the economy hit. The company had debts that he could not pay and he was
never able to recover his business. He had been living in and out of
shelters for the past two years.  

Rachel's Kitchen was in the first floor of an old stone church. A young
woman greeted James at the entrance. The kitchen and dinning area was one
open room separated by a counter. The food was served by young women and
men. James guessed that they were probably college students. Unable to find
a seat by himself James ended up squeezed in next to a man whose animated
body commanded more than its allotted share of space making it difficult
for James to get food into his mouth with his right hand and finally giving
up he ate with his left.

Leaving Rachel's Kitchen James stood on the sidewalk as the other patrons
filed out around him. The morning sun sitting low in the sky cast long
shadows down the street and felt warm against his back. As he stood, he
thought about his day. There was lunch, then dinner and then the shelter.
He pulled a of slip of paper from his pocket that he had gotten from the
woman who greeted him at the kitchen. It listed the addresses and hours for
meals held around the city. As long as he got in line for the shelter by
6:30pm he would be fine.

James turned toward the center of the city and started walking. He passed
kids on their way to school. He passed a man walking his dog. He passed
vendors opening their shops and early risers entering shops while the
vendors were still raising their awnings. His mind rarely traveled from the
immediate as the day unfolded before him.

Over the next few days, he quickly learned where and when to get meals.
Each day passed quickly and if you asked him what the thought about he
could not tell you. At night though when it was finally quiet in the
shelter, he found himself thinking about his childhood. He would replay
familiar scenes in the exact same way they had always been replayed,
because that is how they had been recorded.

It was more than a week, before the memories of his son began creeping back
into his consciousness. But unlike before where they provided a seductive
place to wallow, they now pulled him into their depths. Disengaged from his
role as husband, father, and employee a role which no matter how poorly he
performed still provided a healthy bulwark against the raw emotions of life
they would now leave him crying in the middle of the day on a public bench. 

And then there was the rain. The first time it rained since he had arrived
at the shelter, he was on his way to Rachel's Kitchen for breakfast.  The
rain came suddenly and he dodged into a nearby subway entrance along with
other pedestrians who had been caught unprepared. One woman, quickly fished
an umbrella from her bag and was back on her way. Three kids hastily
changed plans and continued down the stairs through the turnstiles and onto
the subway platform. A couple called for a cab and stood at the entrance
waiting expectantly.

James just waited. He stood near the wall just before the stairs. A steady
flow of people continued into the station. They arrived damp under the
entrance, shook off their umbrellas and hoods and then made their way down.
James just stood and looked through the stream of morning commuters at the
two people standing opposite him.  They were also from the shelter and had
been on their way to Rachel's for breakfast as well.  He recognized them,
but had never spoken to them. They did not look back at him. They were
preoccupied rifling through one of their bags. 

James wanted to be anywhere else but standing inside the entrance to a
subway station. He felt angry at the pair across from him who had now
finished going through their bag and were now just standing. "Help" he
wanted to scream at them, "Tell me the way out!" as if they too must know
what he wanted, must want it as well and were simply playing a trick on
him. If they even noticed him, they gave no sign of it. 

After his second week at the shelter, one of the social workers, began
asking James if he was looking for a job. She implied that it would be
difficult to continue staying at the shelter if he did not start looking
and that if he did get a job, the shelter would expect him to start paying
a small portion of his income to stay there each night. James was not sure
he could follow the logic in this, but did not see the wisdom in
challenging her. 

During the day he sometimes passed help wanted signs in the windows of
restaurants but never inquired about the job. He would come back tomorrow
he told himself, but he never did. Mostly he just wandered the streets
through a constant stream of people on their way to work, to lunch, to shop
completing a billion tiny tasks that together endlessly constructed the
world he saw around him. 

One late afternoon as he walked through the city park, he saw a man a woman
approaching him. The man was walking a bicycle. James recognized him as the
man from the accident. He was the one who had pulled the driver from the
car and the one who had taken his bike. He was sure of it. 

As the couple passed, James stopped and turned. He wanted to say something,
but could not think of what to say. Instead he decided to follow them. He
followed them  for what seemed like a couple of miles out from the city
center.  They finally stopped at a small house that sat in a row of equally
small houses each in need of some minor repair from a pealing paint to a
broken window.  

James stood near a tree slightly out of view and watched as they entered
the house bringing the bike inside. James walked up to the house and
knocked on the door. After less than a minute a woman answered.  She opened
the door just wide enough for her body to fill the gap. He recognized her
from the accident as well. She had been with the group circling on bikes
while the other two beat-up the driver. She did not seem to recognize him.
"Can I help you?" she asked looking down at him. "I was at the accident."
he said. "What accident?" she said. "The one where your friend beat up the
driver" he said. She said nothing and just looked at him her expression
unchanged.  "The driver who hit your friends bike. I was in front of the
car as well.  Your friend took my bike." he added.

Her expression eased into a smile. "Well that wasn't very nice of him" she
said. "No" he said. They both stood looking at each other.  She leaned
against the door, "Are you here to get your bike back?" "No, not that" said
James. "Than what is it?" she asked. "Could I come in?" "Come in?  My
mother taught me to never let a strangers in my house." "My name is James."
said James extending his hand for a moment and then letting it fall to his
side.  "Don't you belong somewhere?  Isn't there someone waiting up for you
with milk and cookies" "I don't have anywhere to go. I have been living in
a shelter. Though now it is too late for me to get a bed for the night."
She looked at him and shook her head and then opened the door wider and
making room for him to enter.

Cautiously James passed her and into a sparsely decorated living room lit
only by the remaining light of the day. On the wall hung four bikes. Two
men stood talking near the entry to the kitchen. 

Closing the door behind him, the woman turned toward the two men and said
"Jay. Nick.  This is James. He thinks one of you stole his bike." "Stole
his bike?" Jay smirked as he turned toward their new guest. "We're not bike
thieves." he added and then looking at James more closely. "Oh wait, I
remember you.  You're the guy who stood with us that night the car hit my
bike." 

"What made you stay? Why didn't you scurry off with the rest of the crowd
when the light turned green. Weren't you with them?" "No" said James. "Than
what were you doing there?" asked Jay moving closer to James. "I was just
out for a bike ride." "But why did you stay in front of the car?" asked
Nick who was now standing next to Jay.  "I don't know." and then "I guess I
just can't stand cars." It was a feeling he had never fully expressed even
to himself. He and his wife had agreed to sell their car after the
accident, but they had mostly talked about saving money and that they
really did not need a car living so close to the city.

"You hate cars?" Erica said confirming his assertion. "My son was killed by
a car." said James. "He was walking home from school. He was only eleven
years old." James cried. A release of tears poured down his face. Another
woman entered the house. When she saw James, she looked at the others and
quietly asked, "What is going on?" "Dice, this is James." said Jay. "He
hates cars."

That night, James ate dinner with Jay, Angela, Nick and Dice. After dinner
they made a bed for him on the back porch. It was the first time he had
slept alone in weeks.

After James had retreated to the porch, Angela and Dice sat in the kitchen.
"Why are we letting this guy James into our house?" Dice asked. "I don't
know. I guess because he has no where else to go." she paused. "He also
implied he might go to the police." "Did he say that?" "No, but he was
there when Jay beat up the guy." "Since when were we scared of the police?"
"Maybe it is just nice to be wanted." said Angela. Dice gave a short laugh
at this. "So he rides with us?" "I guess" said Angela. 

The next morning when he woke, he found Dice in the kitchen. "Where is
everyone?" James asked. "They have all gone to work. My shift starts in
about an hour, so I will be leaving soon as well." "What do you do?" "I
work as a nurse in an emergency room. I help put people back together again
after they break." she said leaning against the counter, a cup of coffee
warming her hands and face. "If you are going to stay here, you are going
to need to work as well." she looked at him. "I guess going back to selling
insurance is out. What other skills do you have?"

James wasn't sure. In high school he had worked at a movie theater during
the summer. At college he received a break on his tuition in exchange for
calling alumni to ask for money. He was not very good at it. He had had a
few jobs after college and before he started working for insurance
companies, but he could not name any specific skills.  "Well, they always
need dishwashers at Jay's diner. He should be able to hook you up with a
job there in a few days." "What does Jay do?" "He is a cook. He keeps
people fed." she smiled. "You are going to make dinner for everyone
tonight. You know how to make dinner, right?" James nodded uncertainly.
Dice showed him around the kitchen and wrote instructions before she left.

That night as Jay helped James with cutting vegetables for the salad James
asked "Why did you hit the driver?" Jay smiled, "Because he deserved it. He
poked me in the eye, so I poked him back." He paused to look up a James
"I'm only human after all." "But you're not human." said Nick who had come
into the kitchen to help. Jay laughed.  "Besides, what about you?  Isn't
that why you found us? Isn't that why you are here?" Jay asked. 

"Because these machines, these massive hulks of steel roam our city. They
line every street. They fill parking lots and driveways. They dominate our
urban landscape more than trees or parks or humans. Because they ride on
miles of black asphalt where nothing can grow and nothing can live, where
kids can't play, where even the very rain that gives us life is shunted
away from its natural course so that nothing, nothing stands in their way.
Because they kill. Because inside each 4000 lb hulk of steel is a tiny
misguided and misshapen human form atrophied from years of disuse. I was
only trying to save him from himself before it is too late."

That evening after dinner, Nick brought James down into the basement. It
was dark but James could make out a few storage shelves on which sat
various objects that had been placed and forgotten. The ceiling was low
enough that Nick needed to duck between beams. They came to a corner where
Nick turned on a light. Here was a workshop with a bench and wall of well
labeled tools. In the middle stood a large metal stand.
 
Nick held up a bike frame that he said he had brought home from the bike
shop where he worked. He explained to James that he would build up a bike
from this frame. Nick said he would bring home parts as he needed them.
Nick handed the frame to James to hold. "What do you know about bikes?"
Nick asked. James said had bought his bike at a bike shop near his house.
He was told it was a commuter bike, but he did not commute on it. He knew
that some of the parts were good because they were light. The salesman had
him lift the bike and this was supposed to indicate to James that his bike
was, in fact, light, but it felt no lighter than what he expected a object
of that size would feel. He said that he had learned to patch a flat but
was never confident that he did it correctly and sometimes still brought it
to the shop to get a flat fixed.

"Look at the frame you are holding. What do you see?" said Nick. James not
sure what to say, said that he could make out the first couple of letters
of what looked like a brand name. He could see scratches and rust. He said
that it seemed old. "This frame is over twenty years old and it carries the
history of everyone who has used it, in its scrapes, its rust, a seat post
clamp that no longer holds a seat post bolt. Even the very lattice of the
metal has been pushed and pulled surrendering to the work of its human
riders. In that way, it has erased its origin of mass production and become
a sacred human object and by your hand it will remain so."

For the next few days, James spent every evening in the basement building
his bike. Each day Nick would bring him different used parts from his shop.
James learned to carefully disassemble and clean each part before bolting
or threading it onto his bike and adjusting it so that worked in perfect
unison with every other part on his bike as Nick had taught him, from leg
to pedal, from pedal to crank arm, from crank arm to chain ring, from chain
ring to chain, from chain to cassette, from cassette to bearings, from
bearings to spokes, from spokes to rim, from rim to tire and from tire to
road.

Nick taught James how to carefully clean, thread and adjust every part. 




A few days later as James and Jay finished drying the last of the dishes
from dinner, Nick started taking the bikes down from their rack on the
wall. As James left the kitchen, Dice handed him a heavy jacket and said,
"You ready to go?" "Go where?" James asked. "Where we going Nick?" "Where
the Heffalumps are." Nick smiled. Dice pointed to the back porch, "Get you
bike in here so I can check it out. Let's see what Nick taught you." 

James went to get his bike and rolled it into the living room. "Looks good
James, but can you ride?" "Sit on the bike." James hesitated. "Don't worry,
you won't fall. I'll hold it." Dice held the bike by the seat post with one
hand you need to fall into a two dimensional plane. All of your energy, all
of your being is directed forward.

After James got off his bike he noticed that each were wearing heavy
jackets. Nick and Angela were wearing helmets that looked more like ones
worn by hockey players. the others were strapping tools to their bikes. Jay
had what looked like a hammer with a large blunt head. Nicked what James
could only imagine was a spear. The clothes were dark. no lights. 

As they carried their bikes outside the house, Dice said to James, "Just
stay close and do exactly as we do." She punched his shoulder, the blow
dampened by the thick jacket she had given him. Standing in front of the
house, Jay turned to James, smiled and said, "Make sure you keep up."
"I will." said James nervously.

They took off down the block moving at an easy pace. They headed toward the
city with each of the four taking the lead at various points. They
generally rode in a single file though sometimes opened up riding two
abreast. James was relieved that it was not hard for him to stay with the
group.  

Once they made their way into the city, they no longer seemed to be moving
in a single direction but wandered left and then right with no obvious
purpose. James enjoyed not having to think about where he was going. For a
while, no one spoke much. The city settled into its evening routines.

Nearing a crosswalk, Angela who was in lead signaled for the group to stop
as a woman stepped into the crosswalk. Behind James a sport truck blasted
its horn and then accelerated around the group, intentionally and
dangerously close to Dice who was on the outside of the group. The woman in
the crosswalk jumped back and was luckily out of harm's way as the truck
raced through the crosswalk between her and the cyclists. Before the truck
had even past, the group was back on their bikes and moving.  Dice looked
over at James smiled and said, "The hunt is on."

The truck speed away with the bicycles in pursuit. Sensing danger the truck
dodged through the traffic and swerved into oncoming cars to pass slower
moving vehicles. The bicycles were able to keep pace, easily slipping
between cars. To James, the group was moving fast, impossibly fast it
seemed and he could not keep up. Approaching a red light, the truck turned
right skidding onto a side street and scraping against a car on the
opposite side of the street.

On the small side street, Jay stood off his saddle and accelerated up to
the driver's side of the truck. He raised his hammer and smashed the driver
side window. The driver lost control of the truck and for a second it
swerved left almost hitting Jay. Dice now moved up to the passenger side of
the truck and Nick moved in just behind it. Using her left arm, Dice swung
her ice pick into the front right tire. Wedged under between the tire and
the well the tire burst. At the same time, Nick threw his spear shattering
the truck's rear window.

The combination of blows caused the truck to swerve further to the right.
It hit a parked car and falling forward on its crippled front wheel, it
then flipped on its side and slid to a stop in the middle of the quiet
street.

The riders quickly surrounded the vehicle as it lay in the street the
engine still running and its wheels still rotating compelled only by
inertia.  Jay jumped on the side of the truck which was now its top. They
raised their retrieved axes, hammers and spears gave a cries of victory.
The driver mostly unharmed crawled out through the broken front windshield.
Slightly dazed and confronted by the cyclist wild cries, he ran from the
scene.

They all four then gathered around the front of the truck. James, who had
finally caught up, now joined them barely able to catch his breath.  The
truck now lay still except for its engine which coughed and sputtered. Jay
opened the hood of the truck to expose the engine. He reached in, grabbed a
fuel line and pulled out one end. Fuel gurgled from the line wetting Jays
hands and spilling onto the road. The engine gave one last cough and died. 

Jay walked over to James and placed his fuel soaked thumb on James lips.
He pressed his thumb against his lips and then into James's mouth so that
James could taste the acrid and oily fuel. "Distilled the bodies of the
most powerful mammals to walk the Earth." he smiled. Jay rubbed his thumb
against the inside of James's mouth like a mother soothing a teething
baby's gums.  Jay removed his thumb smiled at James and said, "Welcome." He
then tasted the fuel from his own fingers. Dice, Nick and Angela all
reached into the engine, wetting their own hands then licking the fuel from
their fingers.

In the distance they heard the sound of sirens winding up and down as
firetrucks and police cars began to make their way to the scene of the
accident. Mounted their bikes, they rode home in silence. 

James went to bed that night without saying a word to anyone. Over the
week, James did not talk about the events. Do they go out again? Does James
keep up? Every few nights they headed out "to hunt." James got stronger. He
was surprised by his strength. How do the four interact.  

It rained and they were uncovered and the rain felt good.

It seemed strange to James. Sometimes they brought home parts of cars,
trophies. What was the point. They would not take down the world one car at
a time. We do what is right not what is wrong.

"I don't appreciate "My daughter used to say that." James said.
James opened up more with talk of his family. One evening he talked about
his 

After dinner, Dice pulled Angela aside, "Did James ever tell you he had a
teenage daughter." "No, why?" "I just don't like it." "What do you mean?"
"That he is here...and not with her." "Okay, I understand his son died.
Life is rough. He leaves his wife. They are both adults." 

Is this about you? maybe but it
doesn't matter. it is about us.



	

never told us he has a
teenage daughter." "Right." Angela responded not quite sure she understood 
Dice's concern. "Why is he here? Why is he not home? Why did he leave is
family?" 


"About James. He has a daughter. He did not tell us this before." "Alright"
said Angela. "I will plan a time to meet."

"Did James ever tell you that he had a daughter?" Angela asked Dice one
afternoon when they were alone. "What?" said Dice. "Yesterday, he
mentioned to me that he had a teenage daughter." "When he first arrived,
Nick asked him if he had any other kids and he distinctly said No."
"Does it really matter that much?" asked Erica. "He lied to us and he is
an asshole." said Dice, whose father had left her family when she was
young adding "I am fine with him leaving his wife. She is an adult, but
not his daughter. We all need to talk. This matters to me, a lot." 

They agreed to meet on Wednesday evening when James would be at work and
Jay could get off early. Dice told what she learned from Erica and said,
"He intentionally lied to us."

That night they had left a chase unable to stop the car. Heading
downhill on a main street they took the middle lane. Dice looked at
James and swung her pick into his thigh. James twisted fell to the
street and on coming lane. James stood watching a car approach. He stood
and did not move. The oncoming car applied its brakes but too late.


Jude earned the money. By day he worked as a programmer and made enough to
support them all. He did not mind doing this. He enjoyed is work for the
most part and could not believe how much money they gave him. Jenna
volunteered in a soup kitchen. Dala worked as a social worker with
students. 

he streets were quiet. He walked in the hours between good and bad, when
the bad had given up and gone to bed and the good were still waiting for
the dawn to start their day.

The library had been built in the 1920s and was one of the majestic
buildings of the city. The large cool open space of the great room retained
its elegance as the city went through transformations from rich to poor and
back again. James just wandered the shelves looking for a book to read.
Choosing a book was always hard. He finally found something to read and
settled into a chair on the second floor of the building near a window. 

With no job and no money, he had not choice about his place in society.
With each niche there were requirements such as age, race and income.
Certain ones were only achieved by income. Some you just fell into by age
or social status. He could no more be a punk or valley girl. Though all of
these required some income, if only for the basic attire that the social
class expected. The status of homeless or transient required no capital of
any kind. In fact, it was the requirement. In that way it was a sort of
exclusive club. You could visit or pretend, but you could not truly belong
if you had capital assets. 

Inside his house, the same officer who had been there in the morning was
saying to his wife that in order to even file a missing person report, her
husband would to have been missing for at least 24 hours. He also reminded
her that she should have taken him to the emergency room as he suggested.
He promised he would keep a look out and would file an official report as
soon as he could.

James was born in a small town in New Hampshire that had slowly made its
way from rural to suburban. He lived with his mother in a house that
belonged to the latter type and of no particular distinction. It resided
within a cluster of houses equally lacking in any sort of character,
houses that weren't designed so much as built. They served their purpose
as basic shelter including places for sleeping, eating and watching
television.

James was raised by his mother father who left the family when he was
two. If he existed at all it was in a sort of hazy, dream-like memory
that could not be distinguished from a photograph.

His thoughts settled on high school where he wondered about friends he
had not seen in years.


Early one afternoon James finally got enough courage to ask for a job at
a restaurant. He had seen a help wanted sign posted out front for over a
week. Inside it was quiet. A woman handed him a form to complete and
return. He sat down at one of the tables and looked at the form. There
was not much he could fill-in beyond his name. He told the woman that he
did not have a phone number. She said he could come back tomorrow at the
same time and the manager would be there. 

The next day James arrived at the restaurant on time. The manager said
she needed someone to wash dishes. She said the job paid minimum wage
and was for 20 hours a week. She said the hours were from 5pm to 9pm.


