As Captain Thomas Mackenzie sat alone on the ship's bridge and looked out
at the endless night, he thought about his journey from a small rural
village to the command of a Federal Mining Explorer.  While he had not
risen to as high a rank as others in his graduating class at the academy,
he had far surpassed the expectations for a boy from a poor and rural
family with no political connections. His boyhood friends all remained
Earth-bound in jobs that rarely took them more than a few miles from their
homes.

His thoughts of home were interrupted by Corporal Cole's voice on the
intercom informing him that there was a problem with engine number two.
Mackenzie instinctively glanced at the ship's navigation log and confirmed
that they were still within the margin of error for their planned return
path, but any problem this far from home was a cause for concern.  Mining
explorers were launched into space allowing for only a small margin for
error. Their particular mission was set to last seventy days from launch to
landing. Any longer and the crew could arrive a little hungry and possibly
short of breath.  

Cole, the mission engineer, hung in the engine room holding the largest
spanner in her tool box with grease on her hands and Federal-issue jumpsuit
and looking as macho as was possible suspended in zero gravity. She stared
at the fuel intake control of engine number two as if to intimidate it into
revealing the cause of its malfunction. Having spent the past 45 minutes
trying to diagnose the trouble with the engine, she had finally, and
according to protocol, informed the Captain of the problem. 

Since mining explorer crews were limited to one engineer, her training
emphasized breadth over depth. Mining crew engineers were primarily problem
solvers, and Cole enjoyed solving problems, especially physical ones, but
she could also become easily frustrated by ones that seemed to offer no
point of leverage, and she did not particularly like help, especially when
she was frustrated.

As Capt. Mackenzie entered the engine room, Cole remained focused on the
engine. "Any idea what the problem might be?" he asked. Without turning she
responded "No, Sir" and then added that the engine was running at ten
percent below capacity though she had not been able to figure out why.

As the Capt. stood there, she went back to her task, which for the moment
consisted of a one-sided argument with the engine. It was her habit to talk
to machinery when it refused to work as it was supposed to work, as if its
illogical behavior was proof of a lurking consciousness. As her frustration
peaked, she grumbled loudly, "Arggg! Why aren't you working!" her fist
tightly clenched around the spanner which she imagined using to beat the
engine into obedience, "I guess you're just tired, no hurry to get back to
Earth, huh?" she sighed a long breath.

She turned back to the Capt., resigned to him standing there watching her,
and said, "All I can say is that, the engine is working properly with the
one small exception that it is not working properly. It appears to be
burning fuel at the correct burn-rate and the exhaust flow readings are
correct for the burn-rate. The problem is..." She shook her head in
resignation "that there is no problem."

"Maybe it decided to stop obeying the laws of physics" said William Wayne,
the ship's mission scientist and third member of the crew who was now in
the engine room doorway curious about the commotion.

Life on a mining explorer was for the most part excruciatingly dull. The
psychological demand of dealing with boredom was a crew's biggest
challenge, one that United Space Command had yet to adequately address. The
crew was only really necessary during launches, landings and on surface.
The rest of the time, which was most of the time, they just waited while
their ship carried them to and from their destination. 

Cole just rolled her eyes and turned back to the engine. The Capt. turned
to Lt. Wayne and asked, "What do you mean?" expressing more sincerity than
the comment warranted.

"Oh, uh...just trying to inject a little humor into the situation." Wayne
smiled. The Capt. looked at Wayne trying to make sense of this response.
Filling the silence Wayne added "Well, it is just that according to
Newton's Third law of physics, for every action there must be an equal and
opposite reaction. If the engine is correctly burning fuel, the action,
then the rocket must accelerate proportionally, the corresponding
reaction." and then adding "and apparently...well, according to Cole's
description, that is no longer the case."

The captain narrowed his brows as he considered Wayne's response. He then
said, "Yes, well." Turning now to address Cole he said, "I will be on the
bridge writing up a report if anyone needs me." Cole continued working on
the engine minding Lieutenant Wayne's company somewhat less than the
Captain's.

The captain floated alone on the bridge confident in Cole's ability to find
a solution to the their problem. Cole had been assigned to his command a
year ago, after the captain had accepted a promotion from Chief Officer to
Captain which came with a transfer from intra-orbit shipping to mining
exploration. Assignments in mining exploration were generally not coveted
because of their increased risk and extensive time in flight, but they paid
well and were a good way to get promotions.

As a new captain, he did not have a lot of choice regarding his crew and he
could have done a lot worse. Cole had received a perfect score on the
technical portion of her exams, a rare feat on any of the five areas of
examination which, along with assessing technical skills, tested everything
from physical endurance to social compatibility.  

Although they had spent more than 3000 hours living together in close
quarters over the past year, he would not say they were exactly close
friends. They did not socialize outside of missions and did not socialize
much during missions. Their daily routine, which rarely varied, offered
little fodder for conversation. Though, Mackenzie assumed she liked him or,
at least, enjoyed his company since, as far as he knew, she had not put in
for a transfer. 

He found his relationship with Wayne more difficult. It was their first
mission together. His former science officer had recently retired. Wayne
was a pleasant enough person, but he felt that he could never quite
understand what Wayne was getting at, and yet, he always seemed to be
getting at something. 

The Captain began preparing the mandatory report that once sent would take
25 minutes to reach earth and at least a half hour to process before being
sent back. The returning message would likely carry little useful
information. It was a ritual of communication carried over from when space
travel could still be measured in thousands of miles above Earth, and ships
could work through a problem with Space Command in real time, but at over
200 million miles from home there was no longer any meaningful connection. 

What was it that bothered him about Wayne, he thought? He knew his comment
was not meant to be taken seriously. He observed his mind wandering. It was
a frustrating habit that seemed to only have been exacerbated by time spent
on endurance flights. He tried to refocus on writing his report, but there
was little incentive. What could Command do? He thought. It would have been
a different story had the problem occurred on the advance portion of their
trip, when Command could order a return. But at this stage of their journey
they were already trying to return and as fast as they could.

"For every action, there is an equal an opposite reaction." He said to
himself. He recalled learning this exact mantra in high school physics.
But what exactly did that mean? He turned to the ship's computer and looked
up Newton's laws of physics. There it was Newton's third law, stated just
as Wayne had quoted. It included a description of how when a person sits on
a chair the person exerts a downward force and the chair exerts an upward
force. He remembered being just as confused by this sort of example as he
was in high school. 

He also remembered doing well in physics. He was good with equations. He
remembered the example of a cannon that his teacher had provided. The ball
went forward and the cannon when back. At least this demonstration made
more sense to him. He had experienced the recoil of a rifle growing up in
the country. The problem with the rocket seemed a bit more subtle, but he
knew the gases acted as the ball might, just lots of small balls instead of
one large one moving backward.  His rocket was just the giant recoil of a
gun.

His thoughts now drifted to his nine year old nephew Max, his only sister's
only son. Max was a lot like him. He liked science and was good at it.  Max
was proud of his uncle, the great space explorer. He had already decided
that he wanted to follow in his footsteps and become a space explorer as
well.

He now imagined himself explaining to Max the principles of rocket travel,
describing how the hot gases moving backward propelled the rocket forward
with enough force to accelerate their giant ship millions of miles through
space from where they began at Earth Orbit Station. He quoted Netwon's
principle and emphasized the importance of doing well in physics class. 

But Max, possessing the naturally recursive mind of a child, kept asking
"Why?". "Why do the gasses cause the ship to move forward?" "Well, that is
one of the three basic law of physics, discovered by the Issac Newton, the
father of classical physics.  Even with everything we have learned, those
three laws still apply today." he imagined saying "But I still don't
understand. Why do the gases moving backward move the ship forward?" "Well
as I said, the gasses are propelled out of the rear of the spaceship and so
the ship moves forward...it is the basic law..." 

Suddenly, he was no longer talking to his nephew. How exactly did the
hot gasses move the ship forward or the bullet move the gun backward for
that matter? He could think of no real connection between the two events.
It was true that the hot gasses left the ship at great speed and it was
certainly true that the ship moved forward. But why?

Just because one object moved backward, why would another object need to
move forward and why would these two motions need to cancel out each other.
Was there some sort of universal conservation of direction? And if so, why?
He imagined all sorts of pairs of objects that did or did not behave in
this manner. The rule seemed far from universal. "For every action" he
thought but what constituted an action? 

In space this was easy to test. He could throw a moderately heavy object
forward and his body responded by moving in the other direction, but this
just showed it was true, at least in the case of thrown objects. It did not
answer why. He became increasingly frustrated. Here he was the captain of
an space explorer and yet he could not even explain how he had gotten
himself over a million miles from home.

He forced himself to finish the report. The answer would come to him, it
would just take time. After he sent the report, he continued to work
through his series of daily system checks and tasks. Each day pressure
valves and seals were tested. Temperatures and volumes were recorded.
Switches were set and cleared. Tasks that could, for the most part, have
been handled more efficiently by a machine or computer, but there were
humans on board who, for the most part, had nothing better to do. It was
widely accepted but never officially stated that these tasks were simply a
way to keep the crew occupied and, more importantly, sane.

In addition to daily tasks, there were detailed routines to be followed for
just about every possible adverse scenario including partial engine
failure. As captain of the ship he was required to memorize the entire
operations procedures manual or OP for any single ship. These were
essentially giant flowcharts with thousands of conditions and loops. The OP
for his ship filled a 1000 pages.

In reality most captains studied enough to pass their ship test and soon
forgot most of the material. Mackenzie prided himself on his memory, but
still consulted the manual when faced with uncommon events.

After more than an hour he had not heard from Cole. Following protocol she
should have reported in to him fifteen minutes ago. He wondered why she had
not followed protocol, but advised himself, reluctantly, that he should not
push this point at the moment.

He made his way down to the engine room. He found Lt. Wayne still there
silently watching Cole work. Their silence gave him the uneasy sense that
they had been talking about him before he arrived. He asked Cole if she had
been able to diagnose the problem. She said "No" turning to address him and
seeming somewhat more resigned to their predicament.

Cole then went back to work. Wayne smiled at the Captain. The Captain
returned the smile. Almost a minute passed. "I'm still waiting for the
response from Command." Mackenzie said. Cole made a slight "hmm." Wayne
said nothing. In the silence, the Captain became aware of the constant hum
of the ship as it pumped gases and liquids through its network of channels
and moved motors and valves in response to the constant changes in its
environment, and it did all this without complaint and without exhaustion.
At least everything sounded in order, he thought.

"I guess the action and reaction are still not working." The Captain
attempted. Wayne looked at him confused for a second. "What you said
about.." The Captain started. "Right" Wayne interrupted. "Well I was just
kidding." Wayne continued. "Oh, of course." said the captain.

After a minute or so, the Captain again started "It's odd" he said. "I
can't recall exactly why that law works." he paused. "I mean, I had no
problem with high school physics of course, it is just that I seem to have
forgotten the exact science behind that specific...cause and effect." 

Cole laughed to herself. She had become used to the Captain's almost
embarrassingly sincere manner, but was he really admitting that he had
launched himself into deep space over half a dozen times without ever once
wondering how his ship got him there and back? And then with a feeling of
exasperation, why the hell did he care given that they had slightly more
pressing problems at the moment. "It is a law of physics." Cole responded
curtly over her work and revealing the exasperation she felt in her voice.

"Right." The captain paused. And here is where he ignored the voice that
usually guided him around the potential pitfalls of human interaction. "But
that does not really answer the question. To put it bluntly, I can see no
connection between the one object's action and the second object's
reaction."  He then added, "A law itself is not a reason." Wayne, calling
on his own memory of physics class said, "Well, it is like a cannon and a
cannon ball. When the cannon is fired, the cannon ball is projected out of
the cannon, but the cannon also moves backward. It recoils. The rocket..."
"Yes. I know." The Captain interrupted. "But that does not explain why."
Wayne, not sure himself, just shrugged his shoulders and said. "Huh, well I
guess you have a point."

They both looked at Cole who had turned to witness this exchange. She just
shook her head and then turning back to her work added, "How am I supposed
to know." 

At that moment, the whole ship rocked and groaned. The whine of the engine
that had played constant in the background became quiet. "What was that
noise?" asked the Captain.  "That *noise* was the sound of our propulsion
system working and which has apparently just completely shut down." "What
happened?" asked the Captain. No one answered. Then Wayne said, "Maybe we
lost faith." "What?" replied the captain turning quickly to Wayne.  "Maybe
we doubted Newton's law right out of existence." Everyone just floated in
silence.

A full shutdown in space was bad, very bad. And they weren't just in space,
but 200 million miles from home. There was no concern about their reaching
Earth. They were headed straight for Earth, but at their present speed
without acceleration, their spaceship would reach Earth in about 25 years
or 24 years after their oxygen was expected to run out. They would become
just another ghost ship, slowly and dutifully returning its long deceased
crew back home.

Both the Captain and Wayne looked at Cole. While the manual would have
offered two or at most three options for dealing with this sort of extreme
emergency and the decision as to which option to follow lay in the hands of
the Captain, there was no question about who would be deciding their next
course of action.

"Over the next 36 hours we need to run a strip down diagnostic of the
entire engine and find where this gremlin is hiding. This is going to
require all of us, so I suggest we run two-man split shifts of eight hours
on and four hours off." Leaving nothing to chance, or human intuition,
Command had determined that split shifts which included sleep were more
efficient than full teams working extended hours without sleep. Even when
time was critical.  "Agreed?" she nodded toward the captain. "Yes, of
course." the captain responded in a way that he hoped he had retained
authority.  "Wayne and I will take the first shift." 

The Captain headed back up to his quarters. He would get some sleep. He was
concerned about their predicament but not enough to lose sleep. If there
was one thing that Command got right, it was identifying and selecting
astronauts who stayed cool under pressure. He could think about the danger
they faced, but he could not get himself worked up about it, and this only
added to his sense that maybe there was something not right with him. Other
things bothered him, just not danger. His mind replayed his last
conversation with his crew over and over rewriting his part until the scene
ended with him sounding his image of a captain.

Cole took a deep breath. When it came to danger, she preferred the known to
the unknown, and from her perspective, most of life, with the exception of
these sorts of moments, consisted of perpetual unknown danger. Now that she
had accepted the gravity of their problem, there was merely the process of
following the steps required to address it. They would methodically work
through the engine control system at a fine enough scale, that no matter
how small a gremlin was hiding in there, she would find it. 

Wayne floated waiting for instruction. Cole handed him a simple current
meter and had him test and record readings across over a hundred points
inside a large panel that she had exposed. Basic mechanical and electrical
training was required for all deep space crew members. 

At first they did not speak as Wayne became familiar with his new task.
After about twenty minutes, Wayne made the observation "He's a bit of an
odd bird." "Hmm" responded Cole immersed in her own task. A few minutes
later Wayne asked, "So what do you think of him?" "What?" Cole responded
clearly indicating that she had not been paying attention to him. "Captain
MacKenzie?" she added wondering where this was going. "I don't know. He
does his job. I do mine." she paused, "He has always gotten me back to
Earth." Her voice trailed off as she recognized the irony of what she was
just saying.

Wayne finished his task. Cole set him next to carefully disassembling a
complicated manifold while she worked deep a gas compression partially
hidden from Wayne's view. "Does he ever laugh at your jokes?" Wayne asked.
"I don't make jokes." Cole deadpanned and then chuckled. "Or maybe you are
just not very funny." she added with wry smile that Wayne could not see.
"He just seems like he doesn't get things." Wayne continued. "What does he
not get?" "Like what I said about Newton's law was clearly sarcastic." "I
did not think that was very funny." Cole responded this time without a hint
sarcasm. "Sure" Wayne acknowledged, "but you got the intent." "Yeah." she
said now completely hidden from Wayne's view in the compression cavity. "He
did not seem to understand it at all." "So what are you getting at?" She
responded as she wiped sweat from her brow with towel preventing the
droplets from floating off in space. "Just that he is odd." "We are all
odd." "Yeah but..." Wayne's voice trailed off as he focused on removing a
particularly difficult bolt.

They worked quietly for another half hour. "Have you heard about Crylon 3?"
Wayne asked. "I know about Crylon." she said. "The robots." Wayne
confirmed.  "Yeah. They are pretty impressive. I saw the demos. Their
motion is almost human-like. Though I thought the latest model was Crylon
2. Ouch!" She exclaimed as banged her hand hard trying to replace a heavy
plate. Cole paused for a moment to nurse her hand. "The rumor is that they
have a series 3." Wayne went on. "You mean in secret?" Cole was still
holding her hand and looking at Wayne. "Yeah" Wayne said taking a minute to
look up from his task. "Why would they do that?" Cole asked clearly
skeptical and returning to the chamber. "I don't know but Crylon 2 was
released five years ago and they have not produced an upgrade since. They
say that Crylon 3 is human, like Turing level." 

Cole stopped what she was doing. "How did you pass the psych test?" She
snorted still out of view of Wayne. "It is hard to find scientist willing
to make this trip." Wayne admitted. "There are so many good jobs
Earth-side?" she asked sarcastically. "Well, we are not as crazy you space
jocks." "Hey, I'm an engineer."  "Well, to be fair, you repair
engineering." said Wayne. "Careful" Cole said in tone that Wayne felt she
meant it.

"You have to admit, they have made amazing advancements in bio-prosthetics
in the past five years." Wayne continued. "Sure, but what I don't get is
making it secret." "Maybe they are afraid of public reaction. There has
been a lot of push back against automation in general recently. We've
finally reached that tipping point where fewer jobs are being created by
automation than are being replaced." "Yeah, I've been hearing that. I am
glad they are still sending humans into space. Got it!" she exclaimed as
she replaced a particularly difficult electrical connection that, while not
the cause of their problem, needed to be repaired.

"Maybe they are not." This time Cole completely stopped what she was doing
and put down the wrench she was holding, "You sure you passed the psych
test?  All this because he doesn't get your jokes." "I wasn't necessarily
talking about the captain." said Wayne. "uh huh." Cole replied returning to
unbolting a panel.

"So if he is a robot, why does he not understand a simple law of physics?"
Cole asked after a pause. "Because understanding is more of a human task."
responded Wayne "I don't understand a simple law of physics." said Cole.
"Am I a robot?" "Maybe being a robot is not about being a computer.  Maybe
the price of being human is giving up the sort of power we associate with
computers." Wayne replied. "Uh huh." Cole replied deciding that she was now
tired of their conversation.

Four hours after they began, the captain came down to relieve Wayne. For
the next hour, the Captain and Cole worked together in silence, save for
the few instructions that Cole provided. The silence bothered him. Not that
they talked much otherwise, but here they were working next to each other
for an extended period of time, something that never occurred in their
daily routine. He wondered if this was by design. He wondered if Wayne and
Cole had talked. He was sure they had.

Finally Cole broke the silence. "So how is your nephew doing?" She asked
casually as she check the compression on a series of seals. "My nephew?"
"Yeah, don't you have a nephew named Max." "Yes. He is doing fine." The
captain said. "He is entering sixth grade next year and wants to qualify
for aerospace training." "Just like his uncle." He could hear her smile.
"Yeah." he nodded. He confirmed that she did not have any family. He
recalled that she had mentioned this once. She described how her parents
had both died in car accidents, but not at the same time. Just a
coincidence of extremely low odds. 

Why did you decide to go into space exploration. He did not know. He
remembers looking up at night at the stars. They lived far enough away from
the city that stars were visible. Isn't that what every kid who becomes and
astornaut thinks. Cole: I did not think that. Why did you come here. I have
no idea.

Do you like Wayne? Sure he seems nice. For the rest of the time they were
quiet.

:


The result of the emergency proceedures was that the ship became less
comfortable, less cool, less dry, less breathable. After the captain left,
Wayne said, "He is a bit of an odd duck." One of the cardinal rules of
long-term flights was not to disparage another crew member behind their
back, but it was rarel followed. Cole responded with only a mild "yeah".
Wayne than asked whether she had ever spent time with him outside of
flight, what she knew about his family... 

Over the past thirty years, robots had taken on more complex and human-like
tasks, but to this point they were still mechanical and biomechanical
devices that could perform some human tasks but that could hardly be
mistaken for human.  The two fields of pure robotics building up from
scratch and bio-robotics starting with lifeforms and exerting more and more
control over their behavior. The field of computing had produced impressive
software that had long surpassed the understanding of the individuals who
iniated the software. 

The ones revealed to the public had been relatively easily distinguished
from their human counterparts, but the science was advancing rapidly and
rumors of more and more advanced versions existed.

"It is just that he has got no sense of humor." said Wayne. "And so you
immediately assume he is robot just because he does not laugh at your
jokes?"  "It's not that...he just seems odd and unemotional." "Well, he is
not an android. I have known him for years. And besides, I don't believe
the rumors about the goverment making humans better than humans." 

"Well it is crazy." she said. "I have know him for three years. He is not
an android." "Well, it just seems like a possiblity."  "So you believe the
rumors about the government making humans better than humans?" "It seems
likely." he said trying to bolster his argument by refering to scientific
journals from his own research. 

"Well he has a family. So unless they have figured out how to make robots
have kids, you may need to rethink your theory." "How do you know he has
a family?" Wayne asked. Cole just looked at Wayne feeling annoyed. Why was
he bringing this all up now, she thought. Changing the subject she said,
"We need to start checking the forward compression system." Wayne followed
Cole provided assistance.


"Every action" Cole mused. "Does that mean that mean that every time I scratch my
butt, there is someone else un-scratching their butt?" "You scratch your butt?" asked
Wayne. "Well, only when I can't find someone to scratch it for me." said Cole. Wayne
smiled and said "Well, I guess Newton's law does not apply to butt scratching." "Or
probably, other bodily functions." responded Cole. 

"Well that seems to debunk the 'every action' portion of the law" said Wayne.  "For
some actions there is an equal and opposite reaction" does not sound like much of a
law said Cole. Both Wayne and Cole looked up as they noticed Captain Mackenzie, who
had been quietly standing at the door. "What bothers me is this notion that the
action and reaction are two distinct events" he added. "Does the gas leaving the ship
cause the ship to go forward or does the ship going forward cause the gas to leave
the ship?" "Sometimes there are actions and they are equal and opposite." said Cole.

