Jacob: Is the man who comes to town and finds himself possibly channelling
Jesus with Emily. He is in his early thirties. He is quiet searching. What
is his profession? Where does he come from?

Emily: She is in her late forties. She was born in the town, but left in
her early twenties to go to college. She returned about five years ago. Her
father left with his secretary when she was young. Her brother died in a
construction accident. She dropped out of school. She took a lot of drugs.
She was a promising something. She moved back to take care of her mom. She
had found Jesus. 

She wants to convert Jacob. She loves Jacob, but she is confused because
she know the love he expresses is not his own. Emily needs Jesus to take
care of her, but she also needs other people to believe because deep down
she doubts her conversion.

Teresa: She is in her early thirties. She falls in love with Jacob or does
Jacob fall in love with her. She wants to know that his love for her is
real and that he is not just channeling Jesus.

Paster: The pastor has lived there is whole life. He is a strong and
respected leader in the community. He does not want to lose respect to
Jacob who does not go to church or believe in God.

Maybe the whole community is God-fearing an there is a battle with Jacob.


families. 
families. 
She is standing by the stream. 

Are you new in town? Yes. They chat about where they are from. Placing
themselves in a context in the world, a starting point. She says she lives
by herself. She moved her a few years back. She used to work in a big city.
She lost her job due to substance abuse and becoming institutionalized. She
lived on the street. Her father left when she was young. She wants to
forgive him. 


The overview: A man comes to a small town. He wanders in by bus. He does
not seem to have a destination. It is not clear what brings him to this

t man meets people and tells them he loves them. He talks with a woman who
has had a hard life. She has found God. He tells, you are beautiful, you
are wonder, I love you with all my heart. She feels that he is Jesus and so
he then becomes convinced that he is Jesus. He dedicates his life to
telling people he loves them. This is just one character of many!
Word gets around and people start to believe that he is Jesus
He enters town from the outside. He wanders in by bus and has no cell phone
and no information. All the town does not know how to deal with him. The
paster thinks he is satin because he is jealous of his healing power.

He could have an affair with the pastors wife.  There is a mechanic, maybe
a friend, maybe not. Where does he work. Maybe the whole town is suspicious
and meets to discuss him.

Is there a crime in the town. Are their secrets uncovered? Is there an
affair going on.
A young girl confronts him saying I'm not afraid of you? (Maybe she has
something to hide) Also maybe a rumor develops that he can do miracles or
find truth. He wonders why should you be afraid of me.
A young girl loves him. 

The people of the town put on him their own fears and expectations and so
reveal themselves to each other and to him. He does not know his powers.
People want him to solve their problems.

The dog barks at him.

He does not go to church and this makes him suspicious. He does not go in
cars and this makes him suspicious.  
He comes upon cool teenagers doing drugs at night. Do they mock him or are
they afraid of him.

The person he hugs (you are beautiful) above is a rep of his mother.

own. He 

So what brings them together? 

They pass the church and then a school both are empty, then quiet houses.   
