The Story of King Ib 

To say that King Ib was a man of habit would be an understatement. Every
morning he rose at six and ate breakfast at seven. His lunch was served at
noon with dinner following at five. By eight o'clock, he was in bed and
fast sleep.  Only his dinner menu varied by the day of the week with fish
on Monday, mutton on Tuesday and so on.

All of his habits including his meetings with ministers, walks in the
garden and formal banquets were arranged to punctuate his days, weeks and
months at regular intervals. It was not only the king's habits, but the
habits of his entire kingdom that commenced in a mechanically predictable
pattern. At three o'clock each day you could expect to see the baker
passing the florist on his way to deliver a dozen pasteries to the castle,
and the florist inside his shop preparing bouquets for the evenings meal.

But the king, and so the kingdom, had not always been this way. King Ib was
the only child of King Et and Queen An and they were always very good to
their little prince. Some might argue, too good. It was their desire that
their son's desires never go unmet. He ate what he liked and had meals when
he wanted. He had ponies and playmates and even won games when he wished.
Instead of surprising the prince on his birthdays, the king and queen
simply asked him what he wanted and made sure he got it. 

The prince was always happy as long as he got what he wanted, and he
always got what he wanted, so he was always happy.

It came to pass that the king and queen both died, but the kingdom had
become accustomed to granting the now young king's wishes and so the habit
continued.

Then one afternoon young king Ib, while riding in his coach, spied a maiden
gathering flowers in a park. He had never seen her before, so knew that
she must be new to the kingdom. As he approached, she rose and wiped her
brow. She stood gazing past him and into her own thoughts.

As he watched her standing there, a desire stirred in him more powerful than he
had ever felt before. Without exchanging a single word, he decided that she
should be his queen and asked his ministers to make arrangements for his
marriage. Immediately a date was set and work begun to prepare for a royal
wedding. A young and trusted minister named Or was dispatched to find the young
maiden and inform her of the news. 

When Or found her, she was living alone in a small cottage on the edge of the
kingdom. He informed her of the wedding, and as he began to describe her
role as the future queen something happened that had never happened before.
She said "No."  He continued with his description barely acknowledging her
answer because it was to a question that he had not even asked. When
finally the minister realized something was wrong he stopped.  He stood
looking at her without knowing what to say.

Given that there seemed to be some confusion. The young maiden clarified her
feelings, saying, "I have no intention of marrying the king" Young Or opened
his mouth, but all that came out was "Ahh" and then when he had slightly
recovered "Yes...I will inform the king." The minister returned to the castle
fearing for his job if not for his very life and told the king his story.

The king listened to Or and did not say a word. He felt the painful sense of
desire that results from not getting what one deeply desires, and then he felt
fear. Suddenly, his world had stopped behaving in a way that it had always
behaved before. It was as if one day, the sun had one day simply decided not to
rise.

When Or finished his story, the king slowly got up from his chair and walked
into his chamber. He climbed into the royal bed and pulled the royal covers
over his royal head. 

Each of his ministers tried to appease him by bringing him things he had
desired in the past, but what he wanted was what he wanted, not what he had
wanted and the only thing he wanted was to marry the girl he saw in the park.

Finally Ut, his oldest and wised minister, was called in to help. "Ut, what
should I do", the king moaned from beneath the sheets. You should order her to
marry you, replied Ut. The king was silent for a moment and then peaked out at
Ut. "Order her to marry me? Yes, yes, of course" the king said. "And how should
we go about doing that?" he asked. For the king had never ordered anyone to do
anything before. Ut said that he would take care of the matter and sent two of
the kings guards off to the maiden's house.

After being shown in, the guards read the royal decree ordering the maiden
to marry the king. The maiden looked up from her mending and said, "I am
sorry, but I won't." Not knowing what else to do, the guards returned to the
castle and relayed their news.

Minister Ut's voice betrayed some concern when he told the king the news, but
immediately suggested a new strategy. The king should force the maiden to marry
him. "Yes, yes, we must use force" the king responded but did not bother to ask
Ut about how to go about this, for the king had never forced anyone to do
anything before.

Again, the guards were dispatched to the maiden's house though this time armed
with swords. Entering the house, they brandished their swords and demanded that
the maiden marry the king. The maiden looked up from her washing and said, "No".
Having no idea what to do next, the guards returned to the castle.

Ut now began to worry. It seemed they were dealing with more powerful creature
than he had first suspected. He began to fear for the king's life. He tried to
convince the king that maybe he should reconsider his desire to marry the
maiden and even suggested that his own niece had always been very fond of the
king.

The king went to bed that night feeling even worse than before. His dreams
knocked him about all night and finally tossed him awake in the wee hours of
the next morning. He immediately summoned his guards to take him to the
maiden's house.

Entering the maiden's house, looking disheveled and exhausted, and without
regard for the usual formalities of conversation he said to the maiden,
"Why won't you marry me?". 

The maiden looked up at the king and said, "Because I don't want to marry
you." and then to fill the silence, "I generally only do things that I want
to do." "So do I!" exclaimed the king, excited that they had found some
common ground. "But that is just the problem" said the maiden.  "Our
desires are incompatible." "Incompatible" said the King quietly to himself
liking the sound of the word but not its meaning.  

"But how can this be possible?" exclaimed the king. "Everything is
possible." said the maiden. "But it has never happened before." said the
king. "That is true of lots of things" she said. He eyed her warily. 

And then with no warning to himself or anyone else, he threw himself into a
king-sized tantrum complete with kicking and screaming and crying and after
finally exhausting himself and falling into a unkingly-like ball on the
floor, he peaked out with one eye to see if his performance had had its
desired effect. 

Looking non-plussed, the maiden suggested, "Maybe your whole premise is
wrong." "My what?" said the king addressing her from the floor. "Your way
of going about things, always just getting what you want." "But it has
always worked" he complained.  "Until now." she said. 

The king lay on the floor staring at a small crack in the ceiling and
thinking it looked like a rabbit. And then in an uncharacteristically sober
tone said, "Well I don't know what else to do." 

"Well what do you want to do?" asked the maiden. "Isn't that just the
problem" said the king soberly. For a while the king just lay silently
staring at the ceiling until he drifted into sleep because there seemed to
be nothing else left to do.

The maiden having gone back to her chores now looked down at the king lying
on her floor, a bejeweled lump of velvet and fur, with head and limbs
splayed to no advantage, his mouth agape and humid and emitting a
faint whistle with every breath. What had been mildly amusing was now
irksome and more importantly in the way of her path to the cupboard.

She woke him with a splash of cold water and guided him to a cart she had
hitched to her horse. The king sat quiet and disoriented all the way to the
castle where she dumped him at the gate and returned home.

After a few minutes the king spoke. "Well, what shall we do?" No one was
sure how to answer until Ut finally said, "I suggest we put the past few
weeks behind us and return to our...hmm, normal routines." Everone nodded
and the king said, "Yes, yes, I quite agree. Let us get back to our normal
routines."

And so the ministers waited while he sat on his throne. As the waiting
became awkward, the king looked around and said, "Well what do you want me
to do?" Minister Or finally spoke up and said, "Well sire, we were waiting
for you to express a desire."  "Oh, right" said the king as if this had
been obvious to him as well.

And then everyone waited some more. The king furrowed his brow, rubbed his
chin, pursed his lips and generally expressed all the expressions of a
person working hard in thought. But try as he might, desire escaped him. No
matter how much he furrowed or rubbed or pursed he simply could not think
of anything he wanted. After several days had passed, he began to wonder
where had all his desires gone? Had he simply used them all up. No one
seemed to know. 

Minister Ub, who everyone thought thought too much, suggested that the king
was having trouble coming up with a desire precisely because he was trying
too hard to come up with a desire. This made no sense to anyone else, but
they were all willing to give it try, if only to avoid having Ub launch
into another long winded explanation of his theory.

For a few days, no one mentioned desires at all, and neither did the king.

Their efforts continued until it became apparent that the only desire left
in the castle was for the king to have a desire. None of the ministers knew
what to do.

Meanwhile in the kingdom, the villagers had not heard from their king in
weeks. None of the ministers had said anything either. There was some
relief at not being subjected to the usual frenzy of the king's whims and
wishes, but there was also some concern and some restlessness. "What should
we do?" said the shoemaker to the blacksmith who happened to be walking by
his shop one day. "Do whatever you want?" the blacksmith responded, doing
his best to convey a sense of feeling carefree. "Look at me." he went on to
explain, "I am taking a walk." as if to further make his point. The
shoemaker looked at the blacksmith and thought it a very poor example.
"What is the point of taking a walk?" he asked. "Does there need to be a
point?" responded the blacksmith slightly disheartened at the reception his
performance received. "Well, it certainly helps." suggested the shoemaker.
"Oh hum" said the blacksmith and continued on his walk.

As time wore on, their nerves were frayed with worry and wonder about their
uncertain future. Arguments broke out among friends. The dressmaker and
tailor even came to blows over a disagreement, the details of which neither
could remember when it was all over.

Finally, word was passed around the village that they should all meet to
discuss their troubles. The meeting began in chaos, as no one took charge
and so no one knew where to direct their comments. After a few minutes, the
baker stood on his chair and speaking loudly above the crowd suggested "We
should try see the king" adding that, "He will have an answer for us." "But
what if the king does not want to see us." suggested someone from the
crowd. They had always only done what the king wanted much less even
considered doing what he didn't want. "What if he is in trouble?" suggested
another voice. There was a mummer of approval at this and it was quickly
agreed that the baker's suggestion was a good one.

The villagers immediately marched to the castle and knocked on the castle
gate. A guard was sent to tell the ministers that the villagers wanted to
see the king. Minister Og looked at minister Ez and said, "But they can't
see the king, not like this." "Why not?" said Ez. "We have done all we can
do, maybe seeing the villagers will help." adding "It could hardly do more
harm."

The saw the king and their hearts sank. What is wrong. We don't knwo. What
does he want. That is the problem. Have you tried Yes. They listed
everything they had tried. the all stared. Then one the baker, who had
always made a brilliant cake for the kings harvest fest, said, the king
wants to host a harvest fest next weekend and he wants me to make the cake.
everyone was silent looking at the baker who showed no sign of backing down
from his claim. Then the florist said yes and flowers. The butcher said
that the king would like sauasge (and eggs shouted the farmer) for
breakfast everyday morning at 8am.  The minister quickly grab (other word
for this) and said are you getting this down?

Then minister Mu shouted, "The king will host his annual harvest ball next
Friday" and everyone stopped and looked at Mu and suddenly it dawned on all
of them. Yes, the king would host his annual harvest ball next Friday. Why
had they not thought of that before. "And the king will have flowers
delivered each morning at 8am to his study for breakfast" shouted the
florist. Here here they all shouted. "And the king will want a new gown to
be made " Here here they all shouted. Quickly, minister Ut grabbed a page
and said, "Make sure you are getting this all down" and so he did.

The king played his part
and so lived happily ever after.







I don't know or I don't care. Don't know would suggest that he had desires
but did not know which one to choose or could not find them. Don't care is
quite different. It means he truely has no more desire.

The was a discussion about wh

Minister Ub then came up with a new theory. He suggested that king was
afraid to express a desire because of the he no longer trusted it would be
granted. In order to avoid the trauma of not getting what he wants he has
willed himself to believe the he does not care what he wants.

No one knew what to do. Then minister Ut suggested that it does not matter
what we do. As he suggested to the king, who had been sitting on his throne
for days, that he go for a walk in the garden. The agreed and they took
him for a walk. And so they began to provide meals for the king and put him
to bed and host meetings with him.

After a while people began to grumble about having to take care of the king
and wondered if they could just leaven. but a minister suggested that they
would be embarrassed if a visitor came and saw their king sitting and doing
nothing, so it was agreed that they would set up a schedule.

(Begin proud of their king, no other kingdom had one like this??)
 

and as hope faded that
this desire might ever be fulfilled, a cool and grey melancholy set in over
the kingdom.

After a week, the mininsters gathered in private council. "The king will
never desire anything again." said Ot. "We can't be certain of that." said
Ig. "Well, we can't wait much longer either. The people are idle and
getting restless. We need to do something." said aQ. "I have an idea." said
Ut "Why not ask the people what they want? I am sure they must have desires." 

The ministers agreed this was good idea and went in to tell the king their
plan. The king agreed and was happy to oblige as he had no other desire.

The next day, the people of the kingdom were called into the royal
courtyard where the king could address them all at once and after a short
preamble he got to the point. "...and now you must tell me what you want."

For a while no one spoke. Even those old enough to remember having their
own desires could hardly think of what to say. Finally, a young boy spoke
up and said, "I would like a pony" He made his request so quietly that the
king had to ask him to repeat it, but as soon as the king heard it, he
immediately sent a page to the royal stables to find a pony for the boy.
The next desire came from a man who had lost one of his hens recently.
Another page was sent to the royal hennery to find the man a replacement. 

For a while the statements of desire continued in an orderly fashion. But
as the day wore on, the people became less patient as they watched their
neighbors having their desires granted and began to long for the granting
of their own. People started to shout over each other and by the end of the
day the mood of the crowd darkened. 

Sensing danger, the king became alarmed and begged his ministers to calm
the crowd. When the king regained their attention he gave his guarantee
that all desires would be met. But he said he had grown tired and would
have to resume the process first thing in the morning.

The next day a more orderly process was established that involved stanchons
and tickets. But as the week wore on the granting of desires became more
difficult. The royal hennery and stables contained only so many hens and
horses. And more and more the desire of one person was incompatible with
the desire of another.

Toward the end of the week, a rumor began to make its way through the crowd
that the kingdom's coffiers would soon be empty. Quickly the feeling of
desire bleed to panic and the panic propelled the crowd forward and like a
giant wave it breached the walls of the castle. 

Easily overcoming the guards, the crowd poured through the halls of the
castle smashing and looting as they went. Finally they found the king
hiding alone in the inner chamber of his inner court. Surrounding the king
the people shook their fists and shouted their desires, but the king just
looked out at them from behind his chair his eyes wide and blinking and
saying nothing.

They continued to shake and shout but were unable to provoke a response
from the king. Unrewarded, their anger slowly fell to calm. For a moment
they just looked at the king and he just looked back at them. Then a voice
from the crowd addressed the king in anger, "What have you done?" "I gave
you what you wanted." "You gave us chickens and horses." "That is what you
asked for." For a moment there was silence. Then from another voice, "But
you are the king."

Accepting that what could be gained had been gained and what had been
gained was not what they wanted, they slowly left the castle and made their
way back to their homes. 

The future of the kingdom never looked so bleak. 

The mood of the ministers was somber as they again met in council. "What
are we to do?" said uG. "The kingdom is in chaos." "I have an idea." said
Ut. Everyone looked at him with

"We should follow our own desires."



The maiden, living mostly independently on the far edge of the kingdom, had
remained uniquely immune from the troubles of the kingdom. Though needing
more flour for baking and new shoes for her horse, she had planned make a
trip to the village in the coming week.

Arriving early one morning, she found none of the hustle and bustle she
usually associated with a village morning. Entering the blacksmith shop
found no sound of clanging metal nor site of glowing coals only the
blacksmith sitting quietly in the corner absently working a small piece of
metal in his hand. 

After exchanging the usual pleasantries, she asked if he would shod her
horse. "Oh" he said and then "Why, yes." He stood and looked around at his
shop and then seemed to notice for the first time that it was far from
prepared for work. "Hmmm" he said and then with less enthusiasm "Well, it
will take a few hours for me to get everything ready for a proper fitting."
"I could come back in the afternoon" said the maiden. "Oh" he said as if he
would have preferred a different answer.

"Is there anything the matter?" she asked. "Oh" he said and then "Well just
that it has been a very troubling few weeks here in the village." She just
looked at him waiting for an explanation. 

"Well" he said as he sat back down and wiped his brow, "A few weeks ago the
king became ill, or so we suspect since suddenly there were no more of the
usual requests to fulfill the king's fancies. Which I admit was a bit of a
relief at first, but then began to feel a bit disconcerting. Then one day
the king appeared in the court and he did not look sick at all. He said, he
was going to grant each person whatever they wanted. Well that was strange
indeed, but who is anyone of us to argue with the king. Well, without going
into details, I will say that this plan did not go very well at all." The
blacksmith pointed to a scare under a lock of hair on his forehead as
evidence. "And now the rumor has it that he has lost all his desire. As you
can imagine, it has been quite a trying experience for all of us." 

Not seeing much point in pursuing the matter further, the maiden left to
see the the miller. Arriving she found the mill equally devoid of motion
except for the scurring of mice who seemed to be enjoying the lack of human
activity. She gathered what flour he had and left.  

Feeling some responsibilty for the turn of events, and because as much as
she hated to admit it, her life was dependent on the proximity of a working
economy, she set off to see the king.

Approaching the castle, the guards recognized her and fearing more for
their lives than their jobs let her pass without question. Without much
trouble she found Minister Ut pacing outside of the king's chamber. He was
startled, what are you doing here? fear.

Entering the chamber the king looked startled. "How did you get in here?"
It was not too difficult. I am a powerful witch after all. He looked
skeptical. What do you want with me? Why are you so afraid? It has been a
difficult time in the kingdom. So everyone keeps telling me. Yes, well
things were a lot less difficult before... "before you decided to marry
me?" Embarrased by the boldness of her statement. he mumbled Yes, well I
suspect trickery might have been involved. Are you accusing me of being a
witch?  Well, you did admit to as much when you came in just now. The both
just looked at each other for a moment. 

In case you were wondering, I no longer want to marry you. she did not
respond. then suddenly quietly confiding in her. "You know, I don't trust
Ut." A couple of weeks ago, the people came rushing into my castle and
threatened to kill me. Minister Ut did nothing to help me. I see said the
maiden. Then he lets you in here today.  What would be his motive, she
asked. I don't know, that is just the problem.

I just don't want anything. My desires used to be so easy. The flowed from
my mind one after another. And then they just stopped. I don't know where
they went. I sit here all day trying to think of what I want to do, but
can't think of anything. Maybe I have no desires or maybe I just can't
think of the ones that I have. I eat. I sleep, but nothing else. Nothing
that keeps the kingdom employeed said the maiden. 

What if i gave you a desire.  I told you what to do. But I would have to
want to do it. the problem is that I have no reason.




Where are you from he asked. why do you ask? I want to leave the kingdom.
We could both escape. We could go back to your kingdom. You could take me
with you. Why do you want to leave? I am tired of being king. 

But that is your job. But I don't want the job anymore. Who else would be
the king? He thought quietly. Why do people care what I do anyway? Why
can't everyone just go about their business. The kingdom cannot manage
itself. Without leadership the kingdom will fall into chaos. 

What if I told you what to do.



What could be
wrong with being the king. Oh everyone keeps asking me questions and I
don't have any answers. What do they ask you? He looked at her for a
second. and then answered. Well...what do I want to do? You don't know what
you want to do? No, not really. I don't want anything or I can't think of
what I want. Is there a difference. He thought about this for a moment and
said, I am not sure.

Maybe if I close my eyes it will all just go away. He closes his eyes. He
opens them and she is still here. He hangs his head and a tears begin to
roll down his cheek.

Can you help me?

The question is can you help yoursefl? Noooooo he moaned.

What do you want? He looked annoyed and then resigned. I just want to know
what to do.

Than you shall know that.

What is it like where you come from? 

I am so alone, everyone just waits for me to do something. They want to
know what I want and I don't want anything and that is just the problem. It
makes me wonder if...well it all just does not seem very real. Getting what
I want was all fine and good until I began to think about it.
Well what should I do? By now she knew that, What do you want to do was the
wrong response, so she tried, maybe it doesn't really matter, What do you
mean? He went pale as if a shutter. white knuckles. Did I say something wrong. No. I
just don't like thinking about...It all used to be so simple before. before
you met me she added. Well yes. he chewed his lip and worked his fingers.
You seem nervous. Can you not see a purpose. The great void. Have you ever
looked at the stars and wondered how far away they must be. He began to
seem catatonic. Giving no impression that he was even aware of her
presense.

Then trying another tack.  You really think all of this has no purpose? No
grand plan? Just bits of matter swriling randomly about. You think there is
no beginning and no end. What of the council of kings who founded the
kingdom. who where here at the begining of time. Do you think the founder
does not look down on you. and sees chaos. 

No longer still, he asked, who...who were the council of kings? You say you
have not heard of the council of kings? Do you not follow the book?

In the kingdom where I come from the book is law. It is an order to life. A
structure that keeps us sane. It is repetition and ritual.

He seemed glad to see her either in spite of or because of her involvement
in the present and troubling state of the king and kingdom.

The grand council of kings.  Why did you not come before? Do you question
the wisdom of the grand council?  You are destined to return the kingdom to
good. Maybe you will join the grand council?  But I must know exactly what
to do. Always asking for more detail...seems obsesseds. Do you have a
dairy? yes but why, did you never know that grand king Om said the past is
the key to the future. 




Entering his chamber, she found the king sitting on his throne looking
pensive and lean. Looking up as she entered he said, "Oh it's you." with
some surprise.  "What brings you to the kingdom?" "I came to get flour and
shoes for my horse." "Well, I can't very well help you with either." "Yes,
I know. But I have come to see you because...well the kingdom does not seem
well." "Yes, I guess so." the king confessed.

"Oh, I don't know what to do" he moaned. "What do you want to do?" she
asked. "That is just the problem." he said. "There is nothing that I want
to do. Or maybe there is something that I want to do, but I just don't
know what it is. I really don't know."

"You might start with having breakfast." she suggested, for the king looked
like he had not had a good meal in over a week. "Yes, I suppose that makes
sense, but then 

SHE MAKES UP FANTASY ABOUT KINGDOM The first king of the kingdom. before x
he askes, before y he askes.

"Do you think I should?" he asked.  Realizing the situation called for more
authority, she said, "Yes, you should have breakfast." "Yes, of course." HE
SAID AS IF FINALLY FINDING HIS DESIRE.
said the king with a sense of resolve that had not been felt in the kingdom
for weeks. He immediately called for a minister to fetch him breakfast.
Realizing that no invitation was forthcoming and because she was quite
hungry from her morning adventures, she suggested, "And you should invite
me to join you for breakfast" "Yes of course." said the king, "breakfast
for two."

As soon as the king finished his breakfast he asked the maiden, "What
should I do next?" "Do next?" the maiden thought. The situation was far
more dire than she had suspected. Quickly she added, "Why you should have
lunch of course." The king immediately called his minister and asked him to
bring lunch. Realizing her mistake she said, "Oh you should not have lunch
right now, you should have lunch at noon." "Yes of course." said the king
and immediately amended his request. 

"So what should I do in the meantime." asked the king. "Hmm said the
maiden. I will need to think about this." The king looked a bit worried.
The maiden then said "You should just wait for your lunch." He seemed
satisfied with this answer and just waited. 

The maiden was worried though. She had no intention of spending the rest of
her life making every decision for the king.  

After an hour or so of thinking about the problem an idea finally came to
her. She asked the king, "Do you have a diary?" "Why yes." said the king,
"I have kept a diary since I was a child." She waited for a moment to see
if her question would trigger the natural suggestion of action, but as it
became apparent that the king had no further thought about the matter she
added, "You should have a minister bring me your diary." The king
immediately requested the diary for the maiden.

She then told the king that she needed to leave but would be back within a
week. The king looked satisfied seemingly aware that his future was set and
but seemingly unaware that the his future's horizon was only a few hours
away.

The king's diary was through. It containing a detailed account of all the
kings actions throughout each year of his life. A seemingly random set of
events that followed some inner human logic and that had propelled the
kingdom along a generally peaceful and prosperous path. Using the diary as
a guide, she created a new book which distilled the former actions of the
king into routines that repeated on a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly
basis. 

The routines were presented a rules for life and were wrapped in a story
that gave rational for their creation and evidence for their value. The
maiden who had never considered herself to be creative was quite proud of
the final product.

She returned to the kingdom to find the king in a dreadful state. He had
not fared well since about one o'clock on the day she left. His brief
experience of feeling secure had only made the emptiness of feeling
insecure less bearable. Excited to have her return, he told her of his
troubles and then asked asked, "What should I do?"

She showed the king the book and told him a story about how it was written
at the dawn of his very kingdom and how it had been followed for a thousand
years and then lost and how this loss had led to the great troubles the
kingdom was experiencing today. And the king very much enjoyed the story
and was not at all bothered by the odd coincidence that the maiden should
suddenly happen upon this book.

She than began to read from the book describing the ritual of life. The
king enjoyed this most of all, but said he would have a hard time keeping
it all straight. She suggested he entrust the keeping of the book to his
most trusted minister. Minister Ut was immediately called in and maiden
assigned him keeper of the book and responsible for ensuring that from this
day forward the law of book would forever be followed.

As she walked back to her cottage that evening, she noticed a star no more
than two thirds above the horizon twinkling down from the dome of the sky.
She had seen this star often but only now thought how it always seemed to
be in the same place every night, coming out early before most of the
others and a wave of loneliness swept over her such as she had never felt
before.

He told them of his curious conversation with the maiden and said that it
was time to ask the people of the kingdom what they wanted. "Well, the
people want what you want sire", said Minister Or. "Maybe, and then again,
maybe not" said the king feeling clever for the first time in his life.

"It is not doing what you want that is
the problem, but what you want to do."

"What is wrong with what I want to do?" he asked. "Your desires are
designed to serve only you." "Who else should they serve?" "They could
serve the people of your kingdom." "But then they would not be my desires."
he said as he wondered if the people of his kingdom really had any desires.
It was not something he had previously considered. 

"Your desire could be to fill the desire of another." said the maiden.  "I
suppose." said the king, "but what would be the point?" "That is a question
only you can answer." said the maiden.
