The Story of King Id 

To say that King Id was a man of habit would be an understatement. Every
morning he rose at six and ate breakfast at seven. Lunch was served at noon
with dinner following at five. By eight o'clock, he was in bed and fast sleep.
Only his dinner menu varied by the day of the week with fish on Monday, mutton
on Tuesday and so on.

All of his habits including his meetings with ministers, walks in the
garden and formal banquets were arranged to punctuate his days, weeks and
months at regular intervals. It was not only the king's habits, but the
habits of his entire kingdom that commenced in a mechanically predictable
pattern. At one o'clock each day you could expect to see the baker passing
the florist on his way to deliver a dozen pasteries to the castle, and the
florist inside his shop preparing bouquets for the evenings meal.

Even the heavens conformed to the unusual nature of the kingdom with the sun
crossing the horizon at exactly six each morning and passing below exactly 12
hours later. Rain fell on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons with partly cloudy
skies during the reminder of the week.

But the king, and so the kingdom, had not always been this way. King Id was
the only child of King Et and Queen An and they were always very good to
their little prince. Some might argue, too good. It was their desire that
their son's desires never go unmet. He ate what he liked and had meals when
he wanted. He had ponies and playmates and even won games when he wished.
Instead of surprising the prince on his birthdays, the king and queen
simply asked him what he wanted and made sure he got it. 

The prince was always happy as long as he got what he wanted, and he
always got what he wanted, so he was always happy.

It came to pass that the king and queen both died, but the kingdom had become
accustomed to granting the now young king's wishes and
so the habit continued.

Then one afternoon young king Id, while riding in his coach, spied a maiden
tending to the flowers in the park. He had never seen her before, so knew that
she must be new to the kingdom. As he approached, she rose and wiped her brow.
She stood gazing past him and into her own thoughts.

As he watched her standing there, a desire stirred in him more powerful than he
had ever felt before. Without exchanging a single word, he decided that she
should be his queen and asked his ministers to make arrangements for his
marriage. Immediately a date was set and work begun to prepare for a royal
wedding. A young and trusted minister named Or was dispatched to find the young
maiden and inform her of the news. 

When Or found her, she was at her Aunt's house where she was living after
having moved from a neighboring kingdom. He informed her of the wedding, and as
he began to describe her role as the future queen something happened that had
never happened before. She said no.  He continued with his description barely
acknowledging her answer because it was to a question that he had not even
asked. When finally the minister realized something was wrong he stopped.  He
stood looking at her without knowing what to say.

Given that there seemed to be some confusion. The young maiden clarified her
feelings, saying, "I have no intention of marrying the king" Young Or opened
his mouth, but all that came out was "Ahh" and then when he had slightly
recovered "Yes...I will inform the king." The minister returned to the castle
fearing for his job if not for his very life and told the king his story.

The king listened to Or and did not say a word. He felt the painful sense of
desire that results from not getting what one deeply desires, and then he felt
fear. Suddenly, his world had stopped behaving in a way that it had always
behaved before. It was as if one day, the sun had one day simply decided not to
rise.

When Or finished his story, the king slowly got up from his chair and walked
into his chamber. He climbed into the royal bed and pulled the royal covers
over his royal head. 

Each of his ministers tried to appease him by bringing him things he had
desired in the past, but what he wanted was what he wanted, not what he had
wanted and the only thing he wanted was to marry the girl he saw in the park.

Finally Ut, his oldest and wised minister, was called in to help. "Ut, what
should I do", the king moaned from beneath the sheets. You should order her to
marry you, replied Ut. The king was silent for a moment and then peaked out at
Ut. "Order her to marry me? Yes, yes, of course" the king said. "And how should
we go about doing that?" he asked. For the king had never ordered anyone to do
anything before. Ut said that he would take care of the matter and sent two of
the kings guards off to the maiden's house.

After being shown in, the guards read the royal decree ordering the maiden
to marry the king. The maiden looked up from her mending and said, "I am
sorry, but I won't." Not knowing what else to do, the guards returned to the
castle and relayed their news.

Minister Ut's voice betrayed some concern when he told the king the news, but
immediately suggested a new strategy. The king should force the maiden to marry
him. "Yes, yes, we must use force" the king responded but did not bother to ask
Ut about how to go about this, for the king had never forced anyone to do
anything before.

Again, the guards were dispatched to the maiden's house though this time armed
with swords. Entering the house, they brandished their swords and demanded that
the maiden marry the king. The maiden looked up from her washing and said, "No".
Having no idea what to do next, the guards returned to the castle.

Ut now began to worry. It seemed they were dealing with more powerful creature
than he had first suspected. He began to fear for the king's life. He tried to
convince the king that maybe he should reconsider his desire to marry the
maiden and even suggested that his own niece had always been very fond of the
king.

The king went to bed that night feeling even worse than before. His dreams
knocked him about all night and finally tossed him awake in the wee hours of
the next morning. He immediately summoned his guards to take him to the
maiden's house.

Entering the maiden's house, looking disheveled and exhausted, and without
regard for the usual formalities of conversation he said to the maiden,
"Why won't you marry me?". 

The maiden looked up at the king and said, "Because I don't want to marry
you." and then by way of explanation, "I generally only do things that I
want to do." "So do I" exclaimed the king, excited that they had found some
common ground. "But that is just the problem" said the maiden.  "Our
desires are incompatible." "Incompatible" said the King quietly to himself
and liking the sound of the word but not its meaning.  

"But why should you get what you want?" asked the king.  "It's not fair"
"Is it fair that you always get what you want?" asked the maiden. The king
thought about this. And then changing the direction of the conversation,
the maiden added "and what of the desires of the people of the kingdom? Do
they ever get what they want?" It was true that he had never considered the
desires of his people. In fact, he had never considered that they had
desires.  "But don't they just want what I want?" asked the king. "Maybe"
said the maiden, "but I think you should ask them."

"Oh" said the king, and then "Hmm" and then "Well" and then "That is
exactly what I will do." excited with the thought of doing something to
please the maiden.

When the king returned his ministers were happy to find him alive and well.
He told them of his curious conversation with the maiden and said that it
was time to ask the people of the kingdom what they wanted. "Well, the
people want what you want sire", said Minister Or. "Maybe" said the king
feeling quite clever for the first time in his life.

The next day, the people of the kingdom were called into the royal
courtyard where the king could address them all at once and after a short
preamble he got to the point. "...and now you must tell me what you want."

For a while no one spoke. Even those old enough to remember having their
own desires could hardly think of what to say. Finally, a young boy spoke
up and said, "I would like a pony" He made his request so quietly that the
king had to ask him to repeat it, but as soon as the king heard it, he
immediately sent a page to the royal stables to find a pony for the boy.
The next desire came from a man who had lost one of his hens recently.
Another page was sent to the royal hennery to find the man a replacement. 

And so for a while the statements of desire continued in an orderly
fashion. But as the day wore on, the people became less patient as they
watched their neighbors having their desires granted and began to long for
the granting of their own. People started to shout over each other and the
mood of the crowd darkened. 

Sensing danger, the king became alarmed and begged his ministers to calm
the crowd. When the king regained their attention he gave his guarantee
that all desires would be met. But he said he had grown tired and would
have to resume the process first thing tomorrow.

The next day a more orderly process was established that involved stanchons
and tickets. But as the week wore on the granting of desires became more
difficult. The royal hennery and stables contained only so many hens and
horses. Some of the latest desires expressed by the people were no longer
so simple. Some neighbors began to use their desires merely as a means to
gain advantage over their fellow neighbors. And more and more the desire of
one person was incompatible with the desire of another.

By the end of week, the people had breached the walls of the castle as they
no longer asked, but demanded the fulfillment of their desires. The future
of the kingdom had never looked so bleak. But when the crowd finally
reached the king hiding alone in the inner chamber of his inner court they
came to a halt. A few shouted, "We demand..." but the king just looked out
at them silently from behind a chair his eyes wide and blinking. One or two
attempted to raise a battle cry only to fall on quiet notes. Slowly fists
were unclenched and arms were lowered and slowly they realized that what
could be gained had been gained and what had been gained was not what they
wanted.  And so slowly they turned to leave the castle and return to their
homes. 

The glass was swept and the doors repaired. The king returned to his
throne. The next day the ministers gather round the king and suggested that
a return to normal would be best for everyone. "Yes, Yes." agreed the king
also hoping to quickly put behind him the disaster of the past couple of
weeks.  

And so the ministers waited while he sat on his throne. As the waiting
became awkward, the king looked around and said, "Well what do you want me
to do?" Minister Or finally spoke up and said, "Well sire, we were waiting
for you to express a desire."  "Oh, right" said the king as if this had
been obvious to him as well.

And then everyone waited some more. The king furrowed his brow, rubbed his
chin, pursed his lips and generally expressed all the expressions of a
person working hard in thought. But try as he might, desire escaped him. No
matter how much he furrowed or rubbed or pursed he simply could not think
of anything he wanted. Where had all his desires gone he thought? Had he
simply used them all up. No one seemed to know. 

His ministers tried to tempt him by suggesting tempting, but with no luck.
There was nothing that the king wanted.

Minister Ub, who always seemed to have a theory, suggested that the king
was having trouble coming up with a desire because he was trying too hard
to come up with a desire. This made no sense to anyone else, but they were
all willing to give it try, if only to avoid having Ub launch into a
longwinded explanation of his theory.

For a few days, no one mentioned desires at all, and neither did the king.

The king cared no more for sitting or standing, or for beef or chicken.
The only desire left in the kingdom was for the king to have a desire, and
as hope faded that this desire might ever be fulfilled, a grey and hard
meloncholy set in over the kingdom. 

The king sat on the throne. The ministers returned to their chambers. The
people muddled in the town and the kingdom began to drift aimlessly. No one
wanted anything and so no one did anything. Broken glass remained broken
and the smoldering fires slowly exhausted themselves. People fullfilled
their basic needs for food and sleep, but not much else.

As time wore on, the meloncoly that harbored in the people spread to the
kingdom and beyond. Birds no longer sang their songs and cats let mice pass
by unharmed. Even the wind seemed to hardly blow and once swift clouds
could barely limp across the sky. 

Since the king had left her home, the maiden who lived on the far edge of
the kingdom had mostly put the episode out of her mind. There had been a
few exceptions as she was low and flour and her horse needed new shoes and
she found that she relied more on the kingdom that than she had cared to
admit. 

Then one morning, as the maiden rose from an unusually restless sleep, she
noticed the morning light was not where it should be. As usual the sun
peaked out from behind the earth but instead of being on the coming up side
it was on the going down side and seemed to just sit there as if suspended
in the sky. It appeared that on the previous evening the sun had simply
stopped on its way down to bed possibly exhausted from a long days work and
not motivated to move any more.

The morning or evening, for it was hard to say which, remained dark as dusk
and the maiden let out a long sigh as she accepted that she could no longer
ignore the problems of the kingdom.

She arrived to find people milling about. The guards were no longer at
their posts. The ministers seemed no where to be found. The king sat on his
throne, gaunt and silent. He did not even seem to notice her enter his
chamber. 

A minister wandered in the room and seeing the maiden asked with more
excitement than had been felt in the kingdom in weeks asked, "Do you know
what the kings wants?" The maiden looked at him as if he had no more sense
than a rose, which might have been exactly the case, and barked, "Get the
king some breakfast!" Immediately, the minister left to fetch a breakfast
for the king. 

For the next week, the maiden went about ordering the kingdom back into
action. She called in the royal wizards to help with the more difficult
tasks involving wind and rain and other natural phenomenon. 

At first the task provided its own emotional reward, but soon the demands
of the task became tedious like juggling a set of pins that relentless want
to make their way back to earth. She began to appreciate the work of the
king and she wanted to go back to her life on the edge of the kingdom. Each
day the ministers would ask what the king should have for breakfast that
day and when they should plan their meetings and if it was going to rain
next week. The maiden had no interest in such details and just wanted to
get back to her life on the edge of the kingdom. And so her orders we no
longer one-offs but included a time frame such as the king will have mutton
every Thursday. 

And when finally she had tied up the last loose end down to the color of
the kings shoes, she stepped back and watched as the kingdom ticked forward
like a watch that no longer needed to be wound. And she walked back to her
home and tended to her work and no one ever bothered her again.








******************************

"But what about me?"

asked the king. "What about you?" said the maiden. A moment of silence
ensued while the king considered his position. 


Entering the maiden's house, looking disheveled and exhausted, and without
regard for the usual formalities of conversation he said to the maiden,
"Why won't you marry me?". The maiden looked up at the king and said,
"Because I don't want to marry you." and then by way of explanation, "I
generally don't do things that I don't want to do." "But what about me?"
asked the king. "What about you?" said the maiden. A moment of silence
ensued while the king considered his position. 

Finally, the maiden proposed, "Why do you want to marry me?" "Because,
because..." said the king who had never been asked this sort of question
before and feeling exhausted from all of these new experiences.
"..because...I don't know." Because he really didn't know. "Well that is
not a very good reason." suggested the maiden. "I guess not" agreed the
king.  "Well, I think that settles it." said the maiden.  "Hmmm" was all
the king could say as he was lost in thought.

The king returned to the castle and sat back on his throne and stared out
at his chamber. The ministers asked him what he would like but he only
said, I don't care. The king did not care what he ate or when or what he
wore or when he went to bed. He stayed mostly in his bed and hardly did
anything at all. Without the demands of the king, his ministers were also
free to do what they wanted, but their wants were often at odds. At first
they all went about their business. One of the ministers wanted to
redecorate the hall, another was interested. Arguments even ensued over
when and what to have for dinner. This builds to war.

At this point Or decides to talk with the maiden. Can you help us? At this
point she agreed. It may have been her own frustration with the. She went
and talked with the king but he truely did not care.
 





"Will you marry me?" The maiden looked up from her sewing and said "No".
"But why" pleaded the king. "Because I don't love you" said the maiden. And
then more quitely, "But why". "I do not know." said the maiden, and then "I am sorry."

The kind stood. His focus moved to a point somewhere behind the maiden. He
blinked. Tears began to well behind his eyes that were never to emerge and
for a moment time moved on without motion or sound. Slowly he straightened
his crown, and slowly he smoothed his ruffled gown and slowly he turned to
leave.

And just before he left, the maiden asked "Why do you want to marry me?"
and the king turned and looked at her, but did not say anything, because he
had nothing to say and then turned and left.

at first he argued and then he cojoled and then he gave up

And so asked him questions untill all of his desires lay in a heap on the
floor like a pile of expired currency. 

He returned to the kingdom with no emotion leaving only an instinct to move
forward.  

And whims of desires no longer marched through his head.  

The king asked his guards to return him to the castle where he sat in his
throne and he sat and he thought. And he thought about 

And so the patterns of life, attrophed from years of disuse, began to
reassurt themselves, like weeds in pavement, but with nothing to temper
them they became fixed in place out of balance. 



And in an instant all his desire gave way to saddness
and all his spirit gave way to acceptance and so he
slept and so he woke. And so untempered the weight of
routine left the king, the kingdom and even the heavans
stuck in a never ending pattern like a record
perpetually skipping through the same song and so and
so.


 

And sadly he returned to the kingdom and sadly he went to bed that evening
and sadly he woke the next morning. And sadly the simple routines of life
continued and even the heavens comformed. 

He returned to his throne where he sat all day and in the evening he went
to bed. The next morning he rose

And then for a moment
the king seemed about to topple. The guards exchanged uncertain glances and
then holding the king by his shoulders, carried him out of the house. They
placed him in the carriage and returned him to the kingdom.

The king stood. His focus moved to a point somewhere behind the maiden. He
blinked. 

They placed the king on the throne and this is where he sat all day and the
next day as well until finally one evening he got himself up and went to
bed. In the morning he wok

And so he sat on his throne and he sat all day, and in the evening he got
himself up and went to bed and so in the morning he woke and so guided by
instinct and memory the kingdom repeated the common and recent patterns of
the days until by the end of the week when the last remaining bits of
momentum gave out and like a clock trying to wind against its spring time
jumped back and then repeated itself again and so the kingdom continued
ever after.





The king was placed in his throne where he sat for the whole day. His
ministers sat and watched him and they waited. What else was there to do.
Toward the end of the day they resorted to proding him with questions but
no advice was forthcoming.

At the end of the day they agreed to put him to bed. They next day they
woke him and feed him breakfast. 

The ministers made sure he was put to bed every evening and feed breakfast
every morning. Like bees without a queen the kingdom sucombed to the dull
weight of the ordinary. routines and habits learned as rote. they continued
on an way that did not intend success but merely (not survival)

Like bees without a queen following the last orders given until the end.

And with nothing left to push
back the dull weight of routine the kingdom fell into the dull and certain
patterns that marked their hours, days and weeks, and even the heavens felt
compelled by the dreary power of the to conform. And so the king and
kingdom continued ever after.



