A woman who begins all her requests with "If someone would like to go do
something that she does not want to do and no one would want to do, than
please feel free."

The primary value of words is not that they can help us express what is in
our head, it is that they can helps understand what is in our head.

Devoid of clothing their bodies seemed lopsided and
limp, generations of Darwinian permutations tempered by little more than
whimsy. 

Nick turned back to James. "Draw a line." Nick pointed to a jar the
contained some pens. On the table was a note pad. James obliged. "Draw
another one." James drew another line next to the first one. "Which one is
better? Which one is more perfect?" he asked. James hesitated a moment and
then said that he thought his second line was a little straighter than the
first. "Now look at the horizontal lines on the paper next to yours. Which
one is more perfect?" "Do you mean which of the horizontal lines or
compared to my lines?" "Either." "Well the horizontal lines are more
perfect as compared to mine but between them they are identical." "But what
do your lines have that these lines do not?" asked Nick "I don't
understand." said James.

"Any machine can produce a line far straighter than the steadiest hand and
so similar from one to the next that even the most discerning eye can make
out no distinction. But this all that a machine can do. These lines are, at
best, a starting point, a sterile and effete prototype for any line crafted
by the human hand. You are correct that they are perfect. But perfection is
only a starting point." 


After dinner James cleared the table while Sarah rinsed dishes before
putting them into the dishwasher. The radio remained on. The host continued
to review the days events from around the world ensuring that no one
thought in James or Sarah's head could take root for long before being
interrupted by a reporters voice explaining the misdeeds of a politician
they had never heard of from a country they could not find on a map.

"Why did you stand there that night?  Why didn't you scurry off with the
rest of the crowd when the light turned green.  Weren't you with them?"
"No" said James.  "Than what were you doing there?" Jay asked. "I was just
out for a bike ride." "So why did you stay in front of the car?" asked Nick
who was now standing next to Jay. "I guess I just hate cars." It was a
feeling he had never fully expressed even to himself.  He and his wife had
agreed to sell their car after the accident, but they had mostly considered
it a way to save money and that they really did not need a car living so
close to the city.



 That night he woke in the dark. For the past week, he had been waking in
the dark, sometimes hours before sunrise. Often he could just fall back
into sleep, but some nights he lay awake for hours having strayed too far
across the barrier of consciousness to easily find his way back. He got up
and went to the bathroom. Standing by the open window in the early morning
there was no longer the sound of cars passing his house, but the quiet
street only revealed the subtle but constant drone of more distant traffic.
Listening carefully, he tried make out the distinguishing characteristics
of a heavy truck downshifting or a motorcycle revving its high RPM engine,
but the noise from the distant vehicles just merged into a single never
ending tone.


 mono sylabic creatures whose only cry is one that claims selfishnish me me
 me
weak and unbalanced, generations removed from the demands of the feral plain.

Their bodies lopsided and limp, the product of generations of Darwinian
variations untempered by the demands of the hunter and hunted. 

generations of Darwinian variations tempered by nothing more than whimsy. 

"Because our cities have become infested with giant metal
creatures, creatures so insidious that they have co-opted us to participate
in our own destruction." 
As it got late James wondered where they all went at night? Didn't everyone
go somewhere at night? Maybe when darkness fell complete, he imagined, they
just slowly came to a halt, like windup creatures whose springs had finally
exhausted enough energy that they could no longer overcome the friction of
their gears, and stood resting motionless until their caretaker came round
before dawn to wind them back up again.

The gun toting wack job who wishes for Armageddon to bring some meaning
to his life.


She never entered a house quietly. Never just came in a put her things away
and went about her business. Immediately upon entering she would shout
Hello, anyone home.

he watched his cat clean himself. The same routine each day. The cat ate,
sleep and chased wild animals. The routine never varied. Nor did the
routine of his parents or grandparents. In fact, you could go back 3000
years and you would find cats behaving just as they did today. 


Having no previous buffer for these sorts of emotions,
	   she was now completely overwhelmed.

Siting on the bus he is relaxed while others are
anxious to get to their destination he is hoping that
the time will not pass too quickly.

The towns that even as they built them and designed
them and created roads to reach them and enable more of
them, they knew even then that they themselves would
never live in them. Never could live in them. Found the
thought of living in them repulsive. So why were they
surprised when a whole generation of people who had
lived in them also felt the same way. The only surprise
should have been that it took them so long.

After his one great work of art he could never make
anything else that garned much interest. His one work
hung in the national gallery, and people always stopped
and admired it. but could never remember his name. and
wondered what happend to his other work.

Ill formed masses of flesh each possessing the standard
number of arms, legs and toes, but shaped in such a way
to appear as if Dawinism had finally been rendered mute
by modern consumer goods to the point that survival
depended only on ones ability to ambulate oneself
across a parking lot to the nearest vendor of Federally
approved consumables. 

pBefore falling asleep that night, she thought about the day and felt
optimistic. Although the meeting did not go was well as she had hoped the
bankers had listened, showed genuine interest and promised to get back to
them with a plan. But experience told her that optimism was often followed
by doubt. For the past few years (and maybe her whole life, she really
could not remember) her emotional state seemed to vacilate between these
two extremes. But instead of resulting in a zero sum, these contrasting
forces seemed to reinforce each other, always pushing her forward like the
swing of a pendelum drives the hand of a clock.



301 806-0432

Why did anyone who aspired to any sort of intellectual status feel guilty
about this box. They would deny watching it as if they honestly believed
this. The whole country had moved into a sense of denial as if it were an
epidemic. But had it always been this way? Did people always feel a
conflict between their actual lives and their perceived lives. Was modern
life just filled with more guilty pleasures. 

Even the dog ignores the television. The dogs life seems changed little
since his domestication. In the modern world his freedom is more restricted
but his interaction with the world remains the same.  He sleeps. He eats.
He sleeps without regard for modern light. Still finding his rythm of the
sun. Television sets have not effect on the dog. He rides in cars, but
without intention or car. It is not a great machine of conveyance, but
simply a place to be like any other. He is equally oblivious to his own
mortality yet still shares our instinct for survival. 

We would attend lectures at a local university. The professors rarely
minded the five extra students in their class more than confrontation.
While Dad sometimes just listened, more often than not he would start
asking questions and move the sleepy students into debate. Once sitting in
the back of the room. The professor was engaged in a lecture about
Taylorism. The students sat some slumped in their chairs doodling in their
notebooks, some taking notes, some staring past the professor their mind
working through some unrelated problem. Without waiting for a pause in the
professors lecture, Dad asked "What are the benefits of efficiency?" The
professor stopped unused to interruption. He looked at Dad and seemed about
to ask his name, but at that point Dad rose from his seat, the professor,
responded, "Well they should be self evident."  "How efficient is this?" he
pointed around the room at the students "The seem hardly the most effective
way to deliver information." "Look here" he took a notebook from one of the
students "It appears your lecture has inspired a rather naughty picture. If
that was the intention..well" 

We entered a corporate feeding station. Where people wore name tags. He
hated name tags. We walked right into the kitchen. No one cared because
they did had no personal interest. They were just placed there and told to
do their job. The cook staff spoke spanish and Dad immediately began
talking to them. We ate soup and bread. It was late and Dad said they all
wanted to go home from a long day so he instructed us to help clean so
everyone could go home early.

And so we found ourselves at the zoo. He had never really talked about
zoos, but had used "zoo" or "animals in a cage" as a way of describing.  As
we methodically made our way through each exhibit, Dad would point the
different animals which he knew by species and type without reading the
public descriptions. He would describe the creatures native habitat
including floral, climate and geographic location.  He would tell us the
range of area commanded by each creature in its daily life and migration.
All in stark contrast to their present predicament. 

When we came to the primate exhibit, Michael made faces at the creatures
and Wendy and I laughed. As Dad was describing the life and habitat of
the gorilla to us he suddenly stopped. The gorilla was looking directly at
Dad and Dad was looking back at him and not speaking. The gorilla picked up
her baby and ran to one side of her pen and then the other, sat ate
something from the ground and looked back at Dad. She then left her
daughter and climbed up on a perch made of some sort of scaffolding
probably left over from construction. She looked back at Dad who just
stared. We did not know what Dad saw or why he stopped talking but we knew
enough not to ask. If Dad wanted to tell us something, he would tell us.

For the remainer of our visit Dad sent us on our way to explore while he
wandered silently around the zoo. We stayed for hours till the zoo closed
and were very late to leave watching the keepers close the gates and for
the night. He seemed particularly interested in the rituals of the closing
of the zoo.

That evening at home he began drawing a map of the zoo from memory on a
large sheet of paper that he had taken from. Each of the pens, stables and
houses were carefully drawn to scale. All of the paths and labeled. As I
watched him draw, I knew there was a reason behind his work.

During dinner we talked about the zoo and the animals. Wendy told a story
about a man who had dropped his camera into the crocodile pit. (look up zoo
stories) Dad just listened and smiled.

After dinner he brought us round the map to describe his plan. We were
going to free the gorilla and as many animals as we could reach. He gave no
reason for this adventure. Micheal and Wendy were immediately drawn to the
plan and did not seem to care for an explanation. I knew enough not to ask.

We would enter the zoo in the afternoon about one hour before closing. One
at a time we would enter the snack hut which was closed an hour before the
zoo closed and. The plan was to remain in sight of the snack hut and enter
in ones and twos when no one was looking. It was a weekday so the zoo would
not be that busy. Dad had noted that the back door to the hut remained
opened. 

Once inside we were to commander a large backhoe that was near a
construction area. Dad said these were easy to start and they often left
the keys in the ignition. The plan was to run a cable from the tractor to
the bars of the cage. The cable would be used to pull down the bars of the
cage. Once we had freed the gorillas we would move on to the other pens.
Dad had marked this all on his map. Indicating where we would be at any
point in time. He had made estimates for how long each would take.


No sooner does the screen pop into her hand than some nacent idea journey
forth, still wet from birth, with a no more instinct than that necessary
for blinking and breathing, comes forth screaming and shouting and dying. 

We stood watching a girls soccer game. We had been on our way to the store
and I am not sure why we stopped.  It was just one of those moments were we
all seemed to have the same thought at once. The girls on our side of the
field were from the local high school. We didn't say anything. Dad seemed
to be studing the game very carefully. The local team appeared to be
losing. 

Dad then turned to us and said, the problem is that they are not using
their hands. You see, each team is trying to move the ball into the other
team's goals, but if they just used their hands it would be so much easier.
Suddenly the game appeared as silly as a sack race with girls awkwardly
trying to 

Just as the ball came close to where we were standing, Dad ran onto the
field grabbed the ball with his hands and then started running toward the
opposing team's goal. Both referres were blowing their whistles and moving
toward him. The girls just stopped playing and stood staring at Dad as he
ran past them making his way to the goal.  As he flung the ball in the
goal, Michael and Wendy let out huge cheers and I joined in with them.  

Every little trival thought that enters one's head is immediately sent out
into the universe, ideas barely formed. The cost of transmission too easy.
The barrier too low. No need or time to sit with a thought and work it out.
No time to think at all. The cost of transmission so small that the merest
thought could be flung into the universe. Television as insidious as it
was, was at least created with some effort. Some work went into creating
the scripts. Some thought went into working with the actors, albeit for the
masses. But we had traded one medium curated for the masses with another
currated by the masses with no great improvement. No need for sustained
thought. No time for ideas to be born and die before reaching maturity. No
time for maturity at all. Sustained thinking was no longer necessary or
even possible. 

Every part of a mechanical device is designed to work in coordination. The
spindle drives the rod which turns the disk which moves the piston. Each
process of revolving, sliding, swinging, lifting, catching each produce
their own vibrations.  Each motion transfers its motion to the next. Each
motion produces an even rhythm. The rhythm is intentional. There is a
difference between a machine that goes clack, clack, clack Every time two
mechanical parts meet there is vibration. But man can't design a perfect
machine so he designs 

he streets were quiet. He walked in the hours between good and bad, when
the bad had given up and gone to bed and the good were still waiting for
the dawn to start their day.

The library had been built in the 1920s and was one of the majestic
buildings of the city. The large cool open space of the great room retained
its elegance as the city went through transformations from rich to poor and
back again. James just wandered the shelves looking for a book to read.
Choosing a book was always hard. He finally found something to read and
settled into a chair on the second floor of the building near a window. 

With no job and no money, he had not choice about his place in society.
With each niche there were requirements such as age, race and income.
Certain ones were only achieved by income. Some you just fell into by age
or social status. He could no more be a punk or valley girl. Though all of
these required some income, if only for the basic attire that the social
class expected. The status of homeless or transient required no capital of
any kind. In fact, it was the requirement. In that way it was a sort of
exclusive club. You could visit or pretend, but you could not truly belong
if you had capital assets. 

James was born in a small town in New Hampshire that had slowly made its
way from rural to suburban. He lived with his mother in a house that
belonged to the latter type and of no particular distinction. It resided
within a cluster of houses equally lacking in any sort of character,
houses that weren't designed so much as built. They served their purpose
as basic shelter including places for sleeping, eating and watching
television.

James was raised by his mother father who left the family when he was
two. If he existed at all it was in a sort of hazy, dream-like memory
that could not be distinguished from a photograph.


It was close to 2am when he finally turned onto his street. As he
approached his house, he saw police car in his driveway. He started to run
toward his house, but when he got to his driveway he stopped. The police
car was quiet and empty indicating no sense of emergency. He was not
anxious for another conversation with the police.

He could see the lights of his first floor were on. His mind raced through
what sort of event could have brought them to his house.  There had been
burglaries in the neighborhood. Maybe his house had been robbed.  Then the
image of the man lying motionless in the street came back into his head.
Was it possible that the man was dead?  This was something he had not
considered. Could the police be looking for him?  Could they have found
him? But he had done nothing wrong. And yet a police car sat in his
driveway in the middle of the night.

He was now close enough to his house to see inside. Under the bright
artificial light of his living room, he could see his wife with her back to
him talking to two police officers. James then saw the police officers make
their way to the door. He looked for a place to quickly hide, but seeing
none, he made his way down the driveway and out onto the sidewalk where he
started walking away from his house hoping that he could make it to the
side street before they noticed him.

Waiting on the side street, he heard the police car drive off. Instead of
going home, James decided to keep walking. He did not want to talk with his
wife or anyone. The day had already been far too long. He decided to walk
for a half an hour by which time he was sure Sarah would be asleep.


