Only fifteen minutes into his lecture, Professor Zeretski had already
filled most of the blackboard with equations. After writing each equation,
he turned to his audience and tapped the board with his chalk as if to
emphasize that numbers, more than words, could be relied on to carry truth.
But the truth was that his latest discovery sounded outlandish, maybe too
outlandish, when described in plain English.

His audience, six men and one woman, were sitting around a long and
expensive conference table in a room far above the streets of Manhattan. On
the walls hung paintings of sailing yachts set in elegant wooden frames.
Each one hardly distinguishable from the next to the casual observer and
whose only intention was to convey a sense of confidence in their viewer.

Through the windows it was possible to see, far below, people wrapped in
fall attire making their way silently and with haste toward another day of
work, but none of this had the attention of the people around the table. 

The blackboard, out of place in the room, had been brought in for
Zeretski's presentation. No one had spoken since he began his lecture, but
the patience of the men around the table was beginning to wear as they
started looking at each other with glances that confided how little they
understood of what he was saying.

The one woman in the room was the professor's lab assistant, Judith Kitts.
A woman in her early 30s who had worked for almost a decade. She was the
reason he was here and arranging this meeting had not been easy, but the
professor needed money and these were the sort of people who could give it
to him. 

Finally, Mr. Jonson, one of the older gentlemen at the table, cleared his
throat and interrupting Zeretski said, "Professor, with the likely
exception of Ms. Kitts, we have only the vaguest notion of what you are
talking about. Do you think you could explain your latest discovery in
less..well...scientific terms?"

Professor Zeretski paused for a moment and stared out the window as if
something else had caught his attention. He then turned back to look at
Jonson and said, "I have discovered love." "Love?" said Jonson. "Love?"
thought Judith. Well, that was certainly an exaggeration, but at least he
had their attention. 

"My dear professor, I do hope you have not come here just to tell us that
you have fallen in love." "No, No" smiled the professor as if he were in on
the joke. "I have discovered the force of attraction between humans. Not
only have I discovered what causes this attraction. I know how to make it
happen."

"Are you saying you know how to make people fall in love?" Said Mr.
Franklin, who together with Jonson, directed the investment firm of
Franklin and Jonson.  "Not love exactly. I have discovered the force of
attraction that exists between people, what makes them close friends or
mortal enemies. Just like the fundamental forces of gravity or magnetism,
human attraction is a quantifiable force that can pull people together or
push them apart." 

"Maybe you can help Halpern here" said one of the younger men at the table,
gesturing toward the man sitting next to him. "He's been chatting up the
barmaid at The Four Horses for weeks now and she still won't give him the
time of day."

"Then scientifically speaking, there is no attraction between them." said
Zeretski. "Oh, I wouldn't say that. Poor Halpern is half mad for the young
lady, and with good reason, I might add." Halpern tired to smile, but was
not entirely comfortable with this discussion of his personal life.

"No" responded the professor shaking his head. "Young Halpern is no more
attracted to the barmaid than this a wooden chair could feel an attraction
to the most powerful magnet on earth. The attraction between humans" he
continued, "behaves like any other force. It must be mutual."

Zeretski then lifted a glass of water off the table and held it above the
floor. "While it is easy imagine the massive Earth pulling the tiny glass,
it is harder to imagine the tiny glass pulling the massive Earth. But the
fact is that the attraction and between the two objects is the same."
Dropping the glass on the carpeted floor, he said, "The only reason the
Earth moves so little is simply its size."

As the glass lay on the floor, he addressed Halpern directly "You feel like
you are supposed to like this barmaid and so you invent an artificial
sense of attraction where none exists." The room was silent for a moment as
everyone around the table contemplated their own relationships with wives,
friends and family.

Judith considered her own life. What did she know about love anyway? Her
knowledge of the subject came mostly from novels, movies and the
confidences of her few friends. 

The conversation turned to the status of Zeretski's discovery, specifically
what proof he had for his claims. Zeretski confessed that, to date, his
only experiments had been with animals, to be precise two mice which he
revealed were named Harold and Helen. The names were Judith's suggetion,
taken from a novel she had been reading at the time and a suggestion she
now regretted.

The tone of the meeting shifted again with the gentlemen poking subtle fun
at the notion of two mice in love. Judith understood their skepticism, but
not their lack of respect for a man who had won the Nobel Prize for physics
at the age of 28. Men who had nothing to show for their work but their
money. 

Zeretski had submitted his first paper to the Journal of Physics when he
was only sixteen and a student at the University of Budapest.  Shortly
after, he was recruited to Princeton University where he completed his
Nobel prize winning work on electronic transfer, which had led to the low
cost electrification of cities and towns throughout the country.

By his mid-thirties, he was a well known public figure and a highly prized
guest at society events. His advise was sought by heads of industry and
even the President of the United States.

With substantial financial backing, he built a large laboratory in the
warehouse district of Manhattan with a staff which at its peak numbered 34.
Over time, his work produced some moderately successful discoveries but
nothing that seemed to live up to the moniker "The Great Zeretski", as he
been dubbed in the papers and a title he showed no embarrasement in
hearing.  

Zeretski wanted to press diamonds from coal, move matter through space, and
power cities with bolts of lightning, "harness the very heavens themselves"
as he was quoted as saying. It was unclear what drove him as he had no
serious rivals in his field, but it was clear that his failures did nothing
to dampened his ambition.

When there was nothing substantial to show for his work, he took to giving
garish demonstrations that often included showers of sparks and plumes of
smoke, demonstrations that bordered on theater. He was soon labeled a mad
scientist and he played the part well. 

Judith sometimes wondered if Zeretski himself could distinguish what was
real from what was make believe or that maybe in desperation he believed he
might conjure real science from well crafted theater.  But Judith was
convinced that his most recent work, their work, was quite real.

After the meeting, Jonson and Franklin met privately in Jonson's office.
"What do you think of Zeretski's claims?" asked Jonson. "It is either the
most important discovery of our century or just another one of his crackpot
ideas." said Franklin.  "Mice." Jonson mused to himself as he leaned back
in his chair "What sort of proof are mice?" "If we could get a scientist we
trust to listen to his claims, we might be in a better position to judge."
said Franklin. "Not likely" said Jonson launching forward in is chair. "He
is completely paranoid. I guess I did not mention that he would only allow
members of the firm at the meeting." "Then what was he doing with all those
equations and scientific jargon in front of a group of bankers?" asked
Franklin. "Hard to say, but how else do you really explain his sort of
work?" 

"The question is, is it worth trying to find out more?" asked Franklin.  "I
say yes." said Jonson. "It won't cost that much and the potential is
enormous." "Should I call Mueller?" asked Franklin.  "I think so. Let's get
him started with the usual contract."

Stanley Mueller was listed under private detectives in the Yellow Pages
though only because there was no heading for criminal. To be fair, he did
investigative work, but his work often and intentionally crossed legal
boundaries. 

Stanley was both tough and handsome and was equally comfortable using
either of these assets to get what he wanted. He bore no particular malice
toward the world or anyone in it, he just liked to get things done.

He had grown up in the city, dropped out before finishing high school and
moved from a life on the streets to his present occupation. His initial
employment had mostly been as a thug working for various mob bosses, but he
was reasonably smart and had a repuation for working discretely.  Through a
series of chance meetings he had been introduced to a class of gentlemen,
though not defined as criminals, were willing to employ his sort of help
once in a while. 

As a result, he made a decent living. In his mid-thirties, he lived alone
dating a series of women until each one realized that the present state of
Stanley Mueller would bare little difference to the future state of Stanley
Mueller. The only ticking clock he heard in his head was the one marching
him steadily through life.

After Stanley's meeting with Franklin and Jonson, he arrived back at his
apartment to find a note from his present girlfriend letting him know that
she was out for the afternoon, but would be back with dinner. Immediately,
he regretted giving her a key his apartment. He was getting soft in his old
age he chuckled to himself. He looked in his fridge for lunch, but there
were few reasonable candidates. He had to admit that having a regular and
decent meal might be a life improvement. 

He headed out to local diner and sat thinking about his new contract. It
seemed straight forward enough, find and copy information about an
invention that dealt with some sort of force that existed between humans.
The idea seemed kinda crazy, but who was he to judge. The hardest part
seemed to be how to find the specific information his clients needed, but
there had been a scientist at the meeting who had apparently worked with
Zeretski in the past and let him know exactly what he should look for and a
good idea as to where to find it. Still, how would he be sure about what
was important and what was not? For now, he just had to figure out how to
get in to Zeretski's lab.

That evening after the meeting, Judith sat in the kitchen of the apartment
she shared with her mother reading the society section of the paper.
Following the trials and tribulations of the locally famous was a guilty
pleasure. Her mother sat across from her and talked to her about her day
which usually included shopping and some complaint about the butcher or the
grocer or someone who passed her too closely in the street, percieved daily
slights that seemed to punctuate and confirm her existence. Judith
responded with nods and "hmmms" which her mother took as affrimation.

The truth was that Judith wanted nothing to do with her mother's life and
imagined the day when she would leave.

Two weeks after the meeting, Judith was seated at the bar of the San Marco.
The San Marco was a small but lively club with a jazz band that played a
few nights a week. In front of the band was a dance floor surrounded by
intimate candle-lit tables complete with well-dressed couples in neatly
pressed attire that shined and sparkled. The crowd talked, laughed, drank
and smoked and by early evening spilled onto the dance floor propelled
toward chaos by their collective nervous tension and held in check only by
the constant rythm of the music.

She had started going there with a friend after work, but over time her
friend had lost interest. Judith continued going in the hope that she might
meet someone but the only men who washed up on the barstool next to her
were too old, too shabby or too drunk. Still it was better than being home.
She mostly passed the time reading a novel.

Judith sat her usual spot at the end of the bar which was set against back
wall of the club and separated from the tables and dance floor by a row of
booths. The bartender usually greeted her when she arrived her but mostly
left her alone.

That evening the club felt more crowded than usual. A few minutes after she
sat down, she heard the man sitting next ask if he could buy her a drink.
Her initial instinct was to just get up and leave. The last couple of weeks
at work had been stressful. The mere prospect of financial salvation cast a
sharp contrast against the certainty of their financial predicament making
it all the less bearable. She could not imagine her life without Zeretski
and the lab and she was not in the mood for another disapointing prospect.

But she was enjoying her book and did not want to go home. Without looking
up she said "No thank you", and waited for the bartender to find her. The
man then asked her what she was reading. Barely turning her head she named
the title of the book and the author. 

"Say, do you think that is Hadley Mason?" the man said, indicating a
gentleman seated on the other side of the bar and who looked nothing like
Hadley Mason, a recent sensation on Broadway.

She turned to follow the direction of the man's finger and then realizing
the farce turned further to find to a handsome face, far more handsome than
belonged in her section of the bar. She paused and for a moment thought
that maybe he was lost, mistakenly flung from the crowd and not quite
realizing where he had landed. 

Looking at him she tried to comprehend the situtation, on its face a simple
proposition, but from her perspective it was like looking at a puzzel with
pieces that did not fit. Cute boys had talked with her before, but only in
high school and only to tease her. One would start to flirt with her and
than laugh out-loud joined by his friends. The humor captured in the
absurdity of the proposal. It was in this way that she learned the limits
of her physical attraction. A far more accurate reflection than any mirror
could provide.

But he was no high school student and there were no friends waiting by his
side for the joke to unfold. 

Filling the awkward silence he smiled and said, "Well, on second thought, I
guess my doctor is right, I do need glasses." She smiled too. "My name is
Stanley" he said holding out his hand.  He always gave his real name. He
found that false names posed more of a potential hazard. 

After a short time, he steered the conversation to her work. She told him
she worked for Walter Zeretski. "Wow, The Great Zeretski?" he exclaimed,
"Is he really..." he paused to judge her reaction. "He is quite a
character." she admitted. "I don't tell too many people this," he said,
"but as a kid, he was my hero.  I wanted to be a scientist, but could'nt
afford college." adding that he had to settle for being a salesman for a
large electronics manufacturer.  

"What is he working on now?" he asked. She wanted to tell him about their
latest work, about their theories about the forces that bind people
together, but Zeretski had made her swear to reveal nothing about this
latest discovery. She was unsure what lead to this sudden need for secrecy.
What made this discovery so different? Was it more real or unreal?

"Oh you know, he is still trying to harness the very heavens." She said and
talked about his efforts to store the energy from bolts of lightning.

"I used to try to read his books, but could never understand a thing." he
confessed, "but I thought that at least I looked smart" he laughed. As he
spoke he wondered if there was any truth to what he was saying. Making up
stories about his past came so easily to him, he sometimes wondered if it
could it all be fiction. Maybe, as a kid he did want to be a scientist. How
much of his childhood did he actually remember anyway? 

He asked if she would give him a tour of the lab. She promised she would
ask. He felt he had gotten as far as he could without raising suspicion and
turned the conversation to the war in Europe, a topic that was increasingly
hard to ignore. He agreed with her that it was America's obligation to
protect the world from the rise of fascism, but truthfully he felt America
should let the Europeans fight their own war. By the end of the evening, he
was able to coax her off her perch and on to the swirling dance floor. She
was happy, more happy than she could remember.  

By the time she got home late that night her mother was asleep. She liked
having the apartment to herself. She sat at the kitchen table and absently
browsed through the day's paper. It felt as if the entire city had finally
gone to bed. The only sound she heard was the tick of the kitchen clock.
Although it was late, she was not ready for sleep. She thought about
Stanley. She replayed their conversation in her head. She pictured herself
dancing. She imagined introducing Stanley to her mother and smiled.

The next day she was late for work. When she arrived she found Zeretski at
his desk with his head in his hands, eyes closed. She knew this as his look
of deep concentration and she left him alone. Suddenly, he looked up at her
and asked, "Is it going to work?" "What?" she said, hoping that he was
referring to some small technical problem and not a more global sense of
pessimism that sometimes overcame him. She was relieved when he asked about
the viability of a protean catalyst that she had been working on. 

She needed to ask him about letting Stanley visit. Two years ago, he would
have enthusiatically put on a show for a class of high school students, but
times had changed. The lack of funds and promise had become harder to
disguise, most notably that that they were the only two remaining employees
in the lab. 

She told him that she had met someone. "Hmm" he said returning his gaze to
his work. She told him that she had met a man that she liked. She realized
that they rarely, if ever, discussed personal matters. She knew that
Zeretski had been married long before she met him and that his wife had
died. But that was about it. She was not quite sure what she expected from
this exchange. He looked up at her from his desk with a expression that
revealed nothing. 

She decided to simply pose her question knowing the answer would be "no."

The next day, she received a message from Stanely asking if she would meet
him for lunch next Saturday at a cafe near her work. She called the number
he had given her and left a message with his answering service agreeing to
the date. She sat in her apartment and imagined meeting never returning.

A few days later, Stanley Mueller was seated in Johnson's office explaining
that he had met the girl, and expected that within the next couple of weeks
he would be able get inside the lab and have time to copy the relevant
documents. Johnson said there was no real rush and that he didn't care to
know the details, but just to let him know when he had the material.

The following Saturday Judith sat across from Stanley at an outdoor cafe.
She asked him about his family and he told her a mix of truth and fiction.
She mentioned her mother but did not say much about her.

During lunch a friend of Stanely's passing the cafe stopped to say hello.
It was an ocupational hazard, but most of his friends knew to be discrete
about his work when running into him in public. The woman was tall and
beautiful. She laid her hand on Stanley's shoulder and laughed with an ease
that Judith envied. After she left, Judith asked, "Who was that?" Stanley
said she was just an old friend from where he used to work. Judith reasured
herself that she was the one having lunch with Stanley.

Stanley again asked her about visiting the lab. She said that Zeretski had
said that he did not want any visitors at this time because he needed to
focus on some important work. Stanley said he understood, but said that it
would exciting just to see the lab where so much had been invented. She
said she would see if that would be possible.

When he got back to his apartment Stanely's girlfriend asked, "So, how was
your date?" in a tone of barely disguised sarcasm. She then added, "I wish
I could be one of your, what do you call them pawns, victims, than maybe I
could get you to take me out." "Okay, Okay" he said, "You knew this was
part of the deal when you met me." "I knew you were a private detective,
but I didn't know that included dating other women." she said. He knew she
was not really angry. She was just using this as a way to gain an advantage
over him, but it irked him just the same. "Do you like her?" she asked.
"She seems smart, I like that." He said. Iris, his girlfriend, had barely
managed to graduate from high school. Iris just looked at him betrying
little emotion. "Okay" he said, "We don't have a lot in common and I find
her a little annoying." He contemplated his own feelings toward Iris.

Iris then smiled and asked, "Is she as good looking as me?" "No" he said
without hesitation. That always worked he thought. You could go on and on
about what kinds of things were important in relationships, but people were
fooling themselves if it ever came down to anything but good looks.

As soon as Judith got home her mother asked her, "How was your date?"
Judith regretted even telling her mother that she was going on a date.
"Fine." she replied. "Did he pay for lunch?" she asked. "Yes." she replied.
Her mother responded with only "hmmm" as if she doubted the veracity of her
answer and asked no more questions.

Judith went to her room and tried to not think about her mother. Her
thoughts turned to Stanley and love. Having little previous experience to
buffer these sorts of feelings, her head was suddenly swimming with
powerful emotions, ike imps from the deep they rose up and grabbed her
pulling her this way and that, and never sitting still long enough for
proper investigation. 

"Love" she thought. And what of her work? What did two mice really prove
except that effects of their tests did not necessiarly result in death?  A
low but important bar in any form of biological research.

Sitting in his small office, Stanley began to consider his options. How
long would it take to get Judith to let him into Zeretski's lab? Johnson
said he was in no rush and he was getting paid, but he did not relish any
case dragging on indefinitely. He decided to play it cool for a while to
see what would happen. Motivating people to do what he wanted was what he
go paid for and he was not bad at his job. 

For a week, Stanley did not call. Anticipation turned to worry and then
worry turned to fear. Each day it became harder for Judith to concentrate
on her work, but work was the only thing that could hold her attention. She
started staying late at work in an effort to minimize the time between
getting home to find no message and going to sleep. Finally she decided to
call him. She left a message with his answering service, and then another. 

The weekend came and she decided she would find him. Maybe something had
happened to him. Why else would he not call? But suddenly she realized how
little she knew about him. The only contact information she had was a
number for his answering service. She did not have an address for where he
lived or worked. She did not know anyone who knew him. The phone directory
gave only the same number she had and no address.

And then her phone rang. She heard his voice. He apologized for not calling
sooner, but said he had been busy with an emergency at work. They agreed to
meet on Sunday afternoon. After she hung up the phone, she felt a sort of
calm so complete it made her wonder if she had ever really felt calm
before. By the next day though, her anxiety had returned. 

The next day she waited for him at the entrance to the park. He arrived a
few minutes late and her anxiety reminded her how little she trusted him
and how little she new him. They walked through the park together and she
asked him questions about his work and life trying build a picture that
placed him in the city.

Stanley sensed her suspicioun. He gave an address for his apartment
building but said he had no phone since he had moved in recently. His
company was not located in the city, but he had a small office on the lower
eastside of Manhattan. His relations had died or lived out of town.

Changing the subject, he told her that he was considering taking classes at
New York University and work toward a degree in science, that she had
inspired him. He said he had no pretentions about becoming a scientist, but
thought at the very least it would help advance his career. 

She knew that he was going to ask again about visiting the lab and she felt
she could no longer keep pretending that a visit was possible. The answer
was no. She decided that she would tell him about their secret work as a
way of explaining why it would be impossible for him to see the lab.
Besides she wanted to talk about it and she did not really understand
Zeretski's desire for secrecy.

"Can you keep a secret?" she asked Stanley. "A secret? What sort of a
secret?" he asked. "Well, it is about my work." "Assuming I even understood
it, who would I possibly tell?" "We have discovered the force the binds
people together." "like us" she stopped short of adding. "Like magnets?" he
asked. It was how it was described to him by the scientist at Jonson and
Franklin. "Yes" she said, "Exactly. Why people are attracted to one another
or repelled." "So, we can forget all about charm and good looks." he
laughed. "Well that certainly makes dating easier." Stanley knew why people
liked each other and why they didn't and it had nothing to do with some
scientific force. The more they talked, the more the whole idea did seem
absurd. They laughed together about the two mice named Helen and Harold.
Judith was surprised by what she was saying and feeling, but she no longer
needed Zeretski.  She had Stanley.

Seated at an outdoor cafe, she told him that visiting the lab was
impossible. After enough time passed so that no connection between the two
events was obvious, Stanley called for the check. He apologized that he
needed to get home early to prepare for an early morning meeting. 

He walked her home. As they stood together outside her apartment, she
leaned forward and gave him a peck on the cheek. He had not expected it. He
smiled as they said goodbye. He did not say he would call her, but knew it
was implied. He would just disappear back into the city. He was sure they
would run into each other again someday. Maybe she would still hate him,
but that was life.   

Just inside the lobby she stopped and turned to watch him from the entrance
as he walked down the street. She smiled as she thought about seeing him
again and then suddenly a wave of panic came over her. She worried that she
would not see him again, that he would disappear again and this time for
good.  She opened the door to call to him, but no sound came out. She
paused trying to make herself go back inside and then she decided to follow
him.

He headed out to a street where he could hail a cab. Standing one block
behind him she hailed just after him. She asked the driver to follow the
cab in front, indentifing the one in which Stanley was riding. The driver
showed no suspicaion at this request. She wondered if this sort of request
was common. She sat back in the seat alone. Stanley one block in front of
her. Out of the cab window she saw couples walking together to catch a late
dinner or show as dusk fell on the city. 

Without even asking her driver pulled to the curb about one block behind
Stanley's cab. She paid the driver and got out. Stanley's cab had stopped
near, but not at the building where Stanley said he lived. She stood a
block behind him as he made a call on pay phone. He then crossed the street
and entered tavern.

Why hadn't he gone home as he said? Maybe he needed to meet someone for
work. All see wanted was to be certain of where he lived. To know of a
place in the city where she could find him. She had come this far. She
would follow him into the tavern. 

Inside it was crowded. She easily found a table where she could see him
without easily being noticed. She ordered a drink. He sat by himself at the
bar and checked his watch. He looked up at the entrance. Less than fifteen
minutes after he had arrived a woman came in and waved to him. He smiled.
She walked over to meet him. He slid off his stool and greeted her with a
kiss. He walked her to a table which was out of view. 

Her mind worked for a rational explanation, some way to put all the pieces
together in a pattern that would fit with the world she had imagined, but
no matter how hard she tried, nothing worked. She left the tavern and
walked the fifteen blocks back to her apartment. As she walked she replayed
the last few weeks in her head from the night when she met Stanley to this
night. 


She calls him and leaves a note.

Was she trying to kill him. He had never killed anyone himself, but he knew
of people who dealt with problems this way. But what problem was she
dealing with. He could not think what he did wrong. he asked, what are you
doing? He has placed people in comprimsing positions before but had never
been in one himself and he did not like it. He began to feel desperate. He
told Judith, "why are you doing this. I love you." No. You don't, she said.
She stopped short of saying you will. In fact she said nothing the whole
time. She was afraid of jinxing or failing. 

Suddenly it dawned on him what was happening. It was like the rats they had
laughed about. He was being subjected to a madman's theory.

Don't do it. Why. Because I don't love you. I don't even like you. But you
will. But it won't be real. How do you know what is real. 

When they arrived at the door of Zaretski's lab, she gave him a sly smile
and asked how he would like to go in and see the lab. He acted
appropriately surprised. The door was heavy with large metal rivits and
straps. It was battered and rough as the entrance to a meat locker or maybe
super hero hidout as protrayed in a popular comic book more likely. Above
the door was a single gas discharge light that gave a faint buzzing sound
and cast an uneartly white. Other than that there was not description of
what lay beyond. A man as famous as Zaretski did not need to advertise,
quite the opposite or so was the impression.

After leading him up a metal platform stairway with walls that had not been
repainted in years, they entered the first room which was long with lab
benches on either side. Mueller was impressed. The lab certainly lived up
to its reputation. There were glass cylinders with smoke pouring from them,
large metal columns emitting sparks, and various biological objects
suspended in sealed glass jars. Though many of the experiments gave the
impression that they had been running unattended for years.

She showed him where she had been working for the past few months on one
part of a much larger device. It made very little sense to him, but he
fiened interest notheless. What he really wanted to see was Zaretski's
study since this was where he was told he would find his most recent lab
book. He had worked out a hastely concieved plan to propose a toast to some
important event in their relationship for which he had brought a flask and
two small shot glasses. Into one he would place a micky that would put her
out for long enough for him to make copies of the documents. She was not
much of a drinker and he sure he could make a convincing arguement that she
had just passed out from the drink. But all this could wait, till his
request did not seem to pushy.

The whole time he felt as if she were leading him to a particular part of
the lab when she opened the doors onto what was, by far, the largest room
he had seen so far. Mueller saw a space over two stories high and wide
enough for a large carrosel and seemed to be mostly round in shape. Much of
the walls were covered in a maze of thick black electrical cable. Some of
the cables were as thick as his forearm. Distributed around the upper story
were what looked like gray electrical transformer boxes giving the
impression that whatever went on in here, it needed a lot of power. Much of
the room was empty with the exception of the middle of the room was a large
apparatus that appeared to be the focal point of all the machinery that
surrounded them. The machine extended about half way down from the ceiling
and stopped. Below it was a platform that extened up about foot from the
floor leaving a space only seven feet high between.

There seemed to be control panels everywhere with levers, switches and
dials. All of it quiet except for the slight buzzing of the overhead
lights. Judith threw a switch and the entire apparatus came to life. Red
and yellow lights illuminated and needles on dials moved to indicate life.
She was not sure why she did this. It seemed like the kind of dramatic
effect that Zaretski might put on to impress. 


He said it seemed like a bunch of hooey. What possed him to say this he did
not know, except that it was exactly what he felt. The whole place looked
like a bad movie set and the her idea seemed like to plot to a worse movie.
Judith took offence and just did not say anything. She got a hurt look on
her face, which just made things worse. Stanely reminded himself that this
was work and he was on a job. Admittedly he could not blame her as he had
just insulted her entire life's work. As she turned to walk away from him
he reached out to grab her arm. He held her and said listen. He wanted to
make things right. He had to make things right. She pulled away, but she
held him. He was frustrated, mostly with himself, for screwing this whole
thing up just when he was so close.

He pulled her back and she said, "Let go of me." "No" He said, "Let's just
talk about this." "No, I don't want to talk." She said as she dug her
finger nails into his arm and pulled harder and kicked him in the shin.  As
he moved to avoid being kicked, he tripped and fell letting go of her arm
and landing in the middle of the platform. Laying for a moment he looked up
at her, rubbing his head and trying to think of his next move. She looked
directly at him saying nothing and then with a smile on her face turned and
grabed a lever just outside the platform.  

NO: Zeretski comes in and hears them. He is in a booth above. They argue
and both express dobout about his work. He can't take this and pulls the
lever.

Suddenly there was a loud noise like a crack of thunder and they were awash
in a burst of light, momentarily frozen as if captured in an overexposed
photo. And then, just as suddenly, the light was gone.

As they left the lab arm in arm, all Stanely could think about was what he
was going to tell Iris.

END

latest work was on the ability to control the attraction between humans.
She described their work in modest detail and then asked Mueller if he
thought this was even possible. He said, "To be honest, it seems a bit far
fetched." "What makes you think so?" She asked.  "Well it seems that
emotions are somewhat outside the bounds of science." he said. "And from
what base of knowledge do you draw your understanding of the bounds of
science?" she asked suddenly feeling irritated and in mocking tone.  "Well,
just because I never went to college, doesn't mean I don't have common
sense." "Common sense" she said laughed, "What has common sense got to do
with anything?" Irratated, they each continued on, each blindly pursuing
their own point of view until they both stopped.  

For a moment they just looked at each other. He frustrated at what he
percieved as her arrogance and she embarrassed by losing control over her
feelings. "Listen I'm sorry" she said, "Maybe we should just go." As she
turned to walk toward the door. He reached out to stop her. "Wait" he said.
"I really want to stay and see more." "No. I think it is best we leave."
She said pulling away from him.

Not sure what to do, he held her arm, but before he could reason with her,
she dug her nails into his arm and pulled him forward. Surprised, he lost
his balance and fell against her. Reaching out to stop her own fall she
grabbed a control panel on the machine. Suddenly there was a loud noise
like a crack of thunder and they were awash in a burst of light,
momentarily frozen as if captured in an overexposed photo. And then, just
as suddenly, the light was gone.

As they left the lab and headed back toward the still bustling city night,
Mueller said, "I have something to confess." Without stopping she held his
and more tightly and said, "Let's save our confessions for later and go get
something to eat. I am suddenly feeling famished."




waited for Stanley outside a new restaurant
in mid-town. The intervening days had tempered her emotions to the point
that where her feelings had always been there was now a void. She felt
neither the chaotic emotions of human attraction nor the purely analytical
intensity with which she usually approached her work and life. She felt
nothing but the sense of a true void waiting to be filled, as if all the
combatants had momentarily retreated from the battle field leaving a sudden
and eerie silence. 

As she turned, she saw him walking toward her. Having only seen him once
before she was still etching his final image in her head, but he was still
handsome and smiling and thoughts of her own thoughts disappeared. They
greeted each other awkwardly. They paused. There was a moment when either
one could have reached out, a hand touching sleeve or shoulder but did not.
He opened the door leading her into the restaurant where he had reserved a
table. During the evening they talked and laughed.  

For weeks they dated until these emotions for which she could still not
find a name became less illusive and began to dominate her consciousness
camped out became less illusive more familiar but no less difficult to name
or fathom.  

One day, looking up from her microscope she rested her eyes and stared at
the wall. For the past hour, she had been counting red blood cells. The
count was part of an experiment that they had been running for the past
month. As her mind began to wonder, she turned to watch Zeretski fiddling
with an electronic circuit that was part of their latest experimental
apparatus.  As she watched him, she mentioned that she had recently met a
man she liked. Engrossed in his work, he responded with slight "hmmm", but
only enough to politely acknowledge that she had spoken and no more. She
paused still watching him and then added that the man was a great admirer
of Zeretski's work. Something seemed to catch his attention, most likely
the mention of his name and he turned and said "I'm sorry, what were you
saying."

She immediately found herself rambling about this person she had just met.
Zeretski turned from his work and listened politely and nodded
appropriately. When she got to the point of describing how Zeretski had
been one his childhood heroes and how much he wanted to met him, Zeretski
showed a sudden interest and asked, "Where did you say you met him?" She
described the bar. And then with a more intense curiosity "And why did he
say he wanted to meet me?" She again repeated his admiration for Zeretski
and described his childhood dream of becoming scientist but never having
the money to afford college. 

Zeretski's curiosity turned to suspicion. He asked her more questions about
what she knew about him which was not a lot and he began to sew doubts
about his motives. Like most scientists Zeretski was protective of his
work, but over the past few years, his suspicions began to border on
paranoia as they increased disproportionately with repect to any success in
his work.  Zeretski ended by saying, "You must promise me that he is not to
come here under any circumstances."

But Zeretski's questions did raise doubts. Who was this man and what did
she really know about him? More importantly, why her? Yes, this was what
puzzled her most. What did he see in her? These doubts came creeping out of
her subconscious. They offered to protect her from the danger she had felt
since it all started, a sense of danger for which they may have been wholly
responsible. 

For the next week and a half, Mueller tried to contact her, repeatedly
calling her apartment and leaving messages with the building's answering
service. When a week and half later she finally picked up the phone and
said, "Hello" he was taken a back. "I thought I might never reach you
again." he said. "And I thought you might never stop trying." She replied.
He half laughed not sure what to make of this. She apologized and said that
she was busy at work and getting home late each night, but agreed to meet
him the following Friday to see a show.

After the show, they walked together from the theater and talked. She felt
more relaxed with him than she had in their past encounters, but it was a
confidence that came with a sharper attention to detail and contrast.

He noticed that they seemed to be headed away from the crowds and into the
warehouse district where Zeretski had his lab. When they arrived at an
overtly nondescript entrance to a large wharehouse under a light that
dramatically flickered and buzzed as if perpetually about to blow out, she
asked "Would you like to come in and see the lab?"

She began
coming here over a year ago with a friend from high school, but a few
months ago her friend had moved away. She was actually relieved when her
friend moved away. The dinners had started to feel awkward. Very little
changed in either of thier lives and sitting there with not much to say
only served to emphasize this point.  But they continued to meet on the
pretext that repeating the same action would someday produced different
results, one of the definitions of insanity.
Judith and
her friend had usually sat at a table near the dance floor. Around them,
well dressed couples and friends, drank and laughed and danced, but were
never quite able to pull them into their revelry.
According to their theories, there was pure and definable force of
attraction that existed humans, but was this therefore a pure love and
definable love? The pure attraction found in their work was not corrupted
by sound of one's voice, the shape of one's nose, or guilt. It transcended
religion and politics for even if there was a disagreement on this level
the attraction was still there. It could be measured and quantified. But
maybe the attraction they measured was so pure as to be boring, tasteless,
dull, persistent and obvious like taste distilled water. This was not the
sort of love described in novels or by her friends. That sort of love was
so impure that they seemed to be based on impurities and yet these
impurities contained no force that they could measure and yet they were
mistaken for love and desire as if fool's gold had become more precious
than the real thing. But maybe what they had found was pure love, but a
sort of love that has no value in the world of desire.  She wondered if she
had ever felt either.
	
Before falling asleep that night, she thought about the day and felt
optimistic. Although the meeting did not go was well as she had hoped the
bankers had listened, showed genuine interest and promised to get back to
them with a plan. But experience told her that optimism was often followed
by doubt. For the past few years (and maybe her whole life, she really
could not remember) her emotional state seemed to vacilate between these
two extremes. But instead of resulting in a zero sum, these contrasting
forces seemed to reinforce each other, always pushing her forward like the
swing of a pendelum drives the hand of a clock.


