By the end of the show, he was juggling six flaming batons. Then one by one
he placed them into stands forming a semi-circle around him until he was
throwing just a single baton high into the night sky. As the baton reached
its apex, he pointed both arms at it and struck a pose that looked like
nothing less than what one would expect of a person pretending to be a
wizard and said "Shazah!" and the baton disappeared into the blackness. As
the audience cheered and clapped, he gave an appropriately exaggerated bow
and then quickly made his way through the crowd gathering small bills and
change into his outstretched cap. 

At dinner that night, Seven described the performance to Adam, "This is the
third time I have watched his show, and every time I see him make the baton
disappear, I have the sense that it is..." "real magic?" Adam finished her
sentence.  "Can you explain how he does it?" asked Seven. "No, but I can't
explain just about any of the magic tricks that I have ever seen. That's
why they call it magic." "But they don't" said Seven. "They don't what?"
asked Adam. "They don't call it magic." said Seven "Like you said, they
call them magic tricks or slights of hand, or illusions. It seems odd that
we call them magicians, and yet what they do isn't called magic" 

They had dated briefly in college, but it was these sorts of conversations
that reminded Adam of why they were just friends. At the same time, it was
the way in which Seven was different from his other friends that he found
attractive and it was why he still looked forward to their occasional
dinners. He sometimes wondered what she saw in him, but was glad that she
saw something, at least, enough to enjoy his company once in a while.

Seven was born on the seventh day of the seventh month in the year 1987.
Her parents had planned to name her Nichole after her father's grandmother,
but on the day she was born, and in an uncharacteristic moment of
spontaneity, her mother suggested they name her Seven. Her suggestion
coincided with an equally uncharacteristic moment of acquiescence on the
part of her father that could most likely be attributed to the site of his
first newborn child, but it was a decision that Seven felt he subsequently
regretted calling her Nicky as much as he called her Seven. Her only
sibling, Josh was born five years later. 

After dinner, Seven walked back to her apartment alone. The sun had set and
the heat of the day had cooled to bearable. A cloud of steam hovered over
the street, the result of a cool afternoon rain colliding with warm July
pavement. The sidewalks were mostly empty as she made her way down a series
of side streets. A few cars drove by, their occupants obscured from view.
In the apartments she passed, she could see the blue glow of television
screens and imagined young people silently gathered around the box in the
modern human ritual.

She thought of her own blue screen in her pocket. She had gotten into the
habit of turning it off during dinner and now took it out to check if she
had any texts.

The first text was from her mother saying that they were taking Josh to see
the latest Harry Potter movie. The second was from Josh saying that he
couldn't believe he was going with Mom and Dad to see the latest Harry
Potter movie. The third was from Adam saying that he enjoyed dinner and
that he thought maybe text messages were magic because he could not explain
how they worked either. Seven smiled.

When she arrived at her apartment, the second floor of a triple decker, her
roommates Sara and Jenna were watching a movie. On the screen a well
dressed man and woman were engaged in what looked like a serious
conversation. She sat on the couch next to Sara. Without turning from the
screen, Sara said, "Some old guy called and left a message." Jenna snorted
a small laugh. "I couldn't hear him that well. I think maybe his tin can
needs a new string." At this, Jenna let out an actual laugh.

Seven knew that both Sara and Jenna knew perfectly well who had called, and
he was old. How old, Seven didn't know, but she figured somewhere in his
late sixties. She had tried to explain Tom to them, but to them he was just
an odd old man.

She had met Tom one morning a couple of weeks ago on the subway platform.
They stood apart both watching a musician perform. Everyone else lined the
edge of the platform waiting for the next subway train to arrive. As Tom
and Seven watched, more people entered the station, passing them on their
way to the platform.  A few paused, but no longer than the time it took to
fish a dollar from their pocket and toss it into the performer's guitar
case. At the end of the song, both Tom and Seven applauded. 

The musician smiled at each of them and bowed his head. The start of his
next song was drowned out by the sound of the arriving train. Seven and Tom
both turned to board the train and stood together near the door as the
train left the station. Tom looked around at the people in their car. Most
sat staring straight ahead, wires trailing from their ears and into their
pockets and bags. 

"Look at them" he said gesturing toward the passengers and in a voice that
made no attempt to protect the subjects of his disdain "Why couldn't they
have just stopped and listened...for just a moment?" "What other task was
so important?" he said continuing to address his reluctant audience. "Did
they not see him?" He then turned to Seven, "A fellow man stands and
performs his art for their benefit, asking nothing of them." 

Seven laughed both at what he said and the boldness of his manner. "They
might have felt obliged to contribute." she responded.

"But they did contribute." Tom complained loudly. "You saw them as they
walked by tossing a dollar at him as if he barely existed." He shook his
head.  "And then they continued on, turning their back to him." He paused
as an automated voice announced the next stop. "But you stood there, why?"

"I am not sure." said Seven. "I guess I saw you there first. Maybe I felt
sorry for him...maybe I felt sorry for you."

"But at least you felt a something." he said finally seeming satisfied.
They stood next to each other for a moment in their own thoughts.

"But what about the music?" he asked. "Did you enjoy it? Did you take any
pleasure in hearing him play?" 

"Sure, I enjoyed it." She responded. "He has a nice voice. I have seen him
there before, but this was the first time I stopped to really listen." She
thought for a moment. "I mean, maybe they just did not want to stop. Maybe
they just don't like his type of music.  Should we stop and listen to every
person who decides to perform in public?"

"They did not want. They did not want!" Tom repeated his voice resuming its
earlier volume. "Who cares what they did not want? A society of people
walking around not doing whatever 'they did not want' is not a society. It
is less than...less than a herd of sheep who at the very least appreciate
the importance of the herd."

Seven laughed again, "How do you know what sheep appreciate?" Tom smiled.
"Besides," Seven added, "they were following the herd. It was us who were
breaking with convention."

"Look at them." he said again, turning away from her and toward the
passengers. "At least sheep graze on grass in all its natural glory and
imperfection. They just sit there suckling on a some...some facsimile of
the human experience.  Refined and sterilized, its only purpose to trigger
a pathetically saccharin response in their sad Pavlovian brains." 

"Well, I can't argue with you there." Seven laughed.

The train arrived at her stop. "Oh, I'm getting off here. My name is
Seven." She extended her hand hurriedly. "It was very nice to meet you."
"I'm Tom. Very nice to meet you as well." He bowed his head and handed her
a note that he had pulled from his bag.  She took the note and left. The
note turned out to be a flyer cut from one quarter of a standard sheet.  On
it was a copy of a hand-written invitation to a gathering at Wilson House
Coop for the following Saturday.  It advertised a potluck dinner with John
Stein reading from his new novel and a discussion to follow.  She had never
heard of John Stein, but she figured the number of authors she had never
heard of was close to infinite.

When she arrived at her office, Brian was waiting for her. Brain was her
boss and a total jackass, at least that is how Seven thought of him. She
had a hard time imagining anyone thinking any different except for maybe
his mother which she had only met once. She worked as an assistant buyer
for Artinos, a local chain of supermarkets. Artinos was owned by the Artino
family of which Brian was a member. 

Brian was not exactly just standing and waiting for her when she came in
the door, but he walked out of his office as soon as she arrived and she
suspected it was not a coincidence. He asked if she had reviewed the
proposal from VanNess for their new line of chips. Chips were important.
They came under the category of "Salty Foods", a major food category in the
grocery industry as measured by sales and dwarfed only by soda. These were
just some of the facts that made her job depressing.

"No. I looked at it yesterday, but will have a report for you by this
afternoon." She said, closing the distance between them but by only by a
few inches and only to accentuate their difference in height, a difference
in which she held the advantage. "And don't worry, I will break it down
into simple language that I suspect even you can understand" she thought.
She was honestly not sure why she disliked Brian so much. Her mother would
have called him a milksop.  She was not sure exactly what the term meant
but it was how her mother described Seven's first boyfriend, though only
after they broken up and only when pressed for a description. It had made
them both laugh at the time. 

When she got to her desk she immediately called Adam. "What do you want?"
he said. "Don't I even get a hello?" she responded. "Sorry." he said. But
he knew a call from Seven often meant trouble, particularly this early on a
workday morning. "What are you doing on Friday?" she asked. "On Friday
...well, let me see.." "Nothing" she cut him off. "Does this involve
magic?" he asked.  "Huh, good question..." she paused for serious
consideration and immediately Adam regretted asking the question. Finding
no purchase for this new line of thinking she responded "We are going to a
party." "Oh" he said and then "Do I want to go to a party?" "Yes" she
laughed. "It will be fun. Meet me at 7pm outside of Mikes in Franklin."

They found the house just outside of Franklin Square. The front yard looked
like it had been allowed to progress without human intervention for some
time, so they made their way down the drive toward the back of the house.
It was only at this point that Adam asked, "Do you actually know these
people?" "No" said Seven. "Oh wonderful" Adam sighed as he noticed lights
on on the first floor and heard the sounds of people enjoying themselves.

Entering the rear porch they could see a large stack of hand-painted
protest signs leaning upside down against a wall. Simple black lettering on
white background, their statements of discontent covering a variety of
themes. Battered and dirty, they appeared to be veterans of more than a few
campaigns. 

They entered a small kitchen, warm and busy with people. Seven held the
boxed pie that she had picked up at an Artinos on her way to the party. As
they made their way through the crowd, Adam leaned over to Seven and said,
"Just don't leave me alone."

In the living room there were more people standing and talking in tight
circles of twos and threes. Seven looked but could not find Tom among them.
She decided that she would just have to tell Tom that she brought the pie
and removed it from its packaging before placing on a table between
Tupperware containers of homemade salads and baked goods.

Adam, meanwhile filled a small plate with a couple of brownies and some
gingersnaps. He suggested that Seven do the same and then they make for the
exit. Ignoring him, Seven interrupted a conversation between two young men
and asked if either of them knew of someone named Tom adding that he had
given her the invitation. One of the men looked around the room saying,
"Well he should be here." Not spotting him either, he said "Well, I guess
he must be in his room. Do you know where it is?" He directed them to the
back stairs and said it was room number four on the second floor. 

Adam, resigned to seeing the evening through with Seven, followed her
upstairs. The doors on the second floor were mostly numbered. They stopped
in front of the one with a red number four painted neatly in the middle of
a green square. She knocked. There was no answer. She knocked again. "Who
is it?" came a distracted reply. "It's Seven" "Oh" he said "We met on the
train platform listening to music together." "Uh-Huh" he responded,
validating this new information but giving it no additional merit. "Can we
come?" she asked. "Sure. The door is open." 

Seven and Adam entered into a room that was only slightly larger than the
single bed in which Tom lay. The bed was on a tall platform neatly
constructed from lumber and metal braces. Beneath it sat a small desk and
chair.  There was just enough floor space for Seven and Adam to stand with
the door shut behind them. Tom lay staring at the wall, his child-like body
comfortably framed in the small bed. At the foot of his bed a sleepy cat
acknowledged their presence through eyes that opened and blinked a few
times and then went back to sleep.

"Tom. Hi." She said trying to get his attention. "This is Adam." "Hi Adam"
Tom said turning his gaze for a moment to acknowledge the introduction.
"What are you looking at?" asked Seven. "A picture." he answered. Seven
leaned over to a better vantage point. Adam followed her. She could see
that he was looking at a photograph hanging on the wall.  The black and
white photo was of a city street. She could make out people in the street
and what looked like a storefront.

"What's the picture of?" she asked.

Tom described the scene slowly and carefully."The two women are talking to
the grocer. He owns the store.  It is early on a Saturday and he is just
opening up. You can see all the fruit placed in wooden boxes out front. You
can just make out a sign saying cherries so its probably July. The prices
are written by hand in chalk on placards. Look the name of the store,
written on the awning. It is his name. The women come here every Saturday.
They know the grocer well.  They are friends. They have walked there
together as they do every Saturday morning. The grocer wears a white button
down shirt and tie under his apron. Just through the door you can make out
a young boy. He works for Mr.  Stanski, the owner.  He is a boy from the
neighborhood. He is also dressed in white button down shirt."

"In the street are lots of people walking in different directions. They are
not afraid to be in the street.  You can see two men walking together.
Both in white shirts and ties and jackets. No need to stand out. No need to
shout 'look at me. I'm special.' They willingly serve the greater good."

They all sat quiet for a moment looking at the photograph. Adam was aware
of the sounds of the party wafting up through the open window. It was a
joyful murmur out of which, here and there, a laugh or cheer could be
distinguished. 

"Where did you get the picture?" asked Seven "I found it in calendar. I
think it was published by the city's historical commission." "Do you know
these people. I mean are they relatives of yours?" she asked. Tom pushed
himself to sitting position.  "No. It is just one of the pictures in the
calender. There is a different one for each month." he paused, "Though my
father used to own a grocery store."

"Was it here in town?" asked Seven. "Yes. It was up on Central Ave. There
is a bank there now." "Did you work there as a kid?" asked Adam who was now
sitting on a bureau near the only window in the room. "Yeah. I mainly
stocked shelves, but when I got older he let me run the cash register. Then
the store closed."

Tom turned to Adam "What do you do for work?" "I work for DAK" "DAK
Technologies?" "Yes." What do you do there?" "I'm an engineer. I help
design drives, drives for electronic storage." Tom's face offered Adam no
cues of understanding, so he continued.  "So there is lots of data out
there now and it is all being created electronically, so corporations need
ways to store all this data efficiently. I help build the systems that make
this possible." "How does that work?" Tom asked. "The technology? Well it's
pretty complicated...I am not sure I even understand it." Adam chuckled.
"Do you understand it?" asked Tom. "Well...I understand the tiny part that
I work on." he admitted.

Tom nodded and leaned back against the wall behind his bed. "There was a
time when the world was no more complicated than a mechanical typewriter,
an impressive piece of machinery in its own right. Through a complex series
of linked levers, hinges and slides," he pantomimed, "it can type any
letter in lower and upper case, set tabs and line spacing and even control
the typing resistance in the keys. But this device, even in its most
advanced incarnation," He was now leaning forward again. "could still be
understood by any single human.  All you needed to do was follow the chain
of physical events from one end of the machine to the other. No slight of
hand. Nothing to be taken on faith."

"But now..." Tom continued. "These connections...these once physical and
tangible connections, a rope pulled, a bell rung, have been...are being
replaced by some..." he paused looking for right word, "some mysterious
fog...a fog that has rolled in from parts unknown. It seeps inside our
physical world. Now a key is pressed here and a letter appears there" he
pointed to no where in particular "and even the creators of the technology
can't tell us what happened in between. This...this fog, featureless and
dimensionless, it knows no bounds of distance or complexity. It enables
great things to happen but at what cost?" He leaned back against the wall.
"It sits murky between us." 

"But what about humans themselves?" Seven asked from beneath Tom's bed
where she leaned back in his chair with her feet on his desk. "They're
pretty murky." 

"Ah humans," said Tom "The hero of our story." His voice trailed off. "What
do you mean by that?" asked Seven. "I don't know." Tom shook his head.
"Sometimes, I just say things." Seven laughed.

"What about quantum mechanics, relativity or even the very nature of
atoms." Adam asked from his perch on the bureau where he sat with one leg
tucked up against his chest. "From what I learned in college even what we
used to understand as a simple physical connection is pretty murky."

"Is it?" asked Tom. "Well, yes according to Einstein and just about every
other physicist since him." "Yes, but what about before them?" asked Tom.
"What do you mean?"  "Was what they said true about the world before they
said it?" His arms had returned to their habit of conducting his thoughts.
"If the world is constructed from our understanding than prior to their
theories, what was the true nature of the world? If the prevailing opinion
is that the world is flat than is it not flat for all intents and
purposes?"

"No" said Adam visibly frustrated. "It is and was objectively not flat."

"But an argument that it was objectively not flat can only be made from a
future perspective and only a prevailing perspective at that. What future
perspective will challenge the prevailing truths of our time? It seems to
me that the prevailing truth of an era trumps any supposed objective truth
applied retroactively from some arbitrary moment in the future."

Adam rolled his eyes and shook his head saying, "I think that seems a
little far fetched." Seven just laughed. "Our whole existence seems a
little far fetched," Tom added vaguely as he lay flat in his bed looking up
at the ceiling. Seven laughed again. Adam wondered how he had let himself
get goaded into this discussion at all. 

For a moment everyone sat quietly. Unnoticed, the day had crossed into
night uncompensated except for the dim light of the street filtering
through the window.

"Does anyone want a beer?" Adam asked hoping for a change of subject. "How
about wine." said Seven. "Okay wine." said Adam. "I am sure there is a
bottle downstairs." Tom said vaguely. Adam waited and then when no one
volunteered said, "Well, I don't feel comfortable going down there by
myself."  "Don't ask me. I'm too depressed." Tom added. "Okay Ill get it."
Seven hopped off her chair and was out the door.

When she returned both Adam and Tom were quiet. She poured a glass of wine
for each of them. She resumed her place on the chair and asked, "Why is
that picture so important to you?"

"Oh it is just one of many. It is the past that is important to me."
replied Tom. "So why is the past important?" asked Seven. "Because it is
where I desperately want to be...more than anything else." "Why?" asked
Adam. "I am not sure I even know." said Tom "It is not that I don't belong
here, it is just that I...I don't want to be here. I want to be there." He
pointed to the picture. "I want to be standing calmly and quietly in the
street with those people. I want to be talking with my hat and coat and
white shirt and tie about the small and uncomplicated events of the day." 

"Well it doesn't make much sense. I mean, it's impossible." said Adam
trying not to sound too unsympathetic. "I know, but I sometimes feel that
if I stare at a picture long enough, if I bring it deeply into my
consciousness..." "You'll end up there." Seven finished his statement.
"Yes. I think so." said Tom.

Adam started to laugh, "Well, that's just crazy!" but when he realized
neither of them were laughing he stopped.

As they sat in the dark drinking wine, Seven told a story about how, when
she was young, she liked to pretended that she was a cowboy in the wild
west, but confessed that this desire was most likely fostered by a
television show she liked to watch.  Tom and even Adam followed suit with
similar stories of own childhood fantasies.

As Tom described a story about watching a circus with his mom, Seven
stopped him. "Wait" she said letting the chair she was leaning in land hard
on the floor. "I know someone who can help you." "What do you mean?" I know
someone who knows magic, who can help you get back to the past." "Oh come
on Seven." Adam started to laugh and then wondered if he was the only
remaining sober person in the room. "You know someone who knows magic?"
asked Tom. "Well I can't be certain."

A week later, Adam, Seven and Tom stood among an audience watching as
Zandor, or "Zandor the Great" as was printed prominently on his trunk,
performed his last show of the evening. As his final act he began juggling,
one, than two, than three flaming batons. Each time he added another baton
to the ones he was juggling the audience cheered until he reached a final
count of eight. The batons followed one another up into the night sky,
under the constant pull of the earth until they finally stopped, hung for a
moment and then returned back down one after the other.

The three had distributed themselves evenly around the ring to ensure that
they could view his act from multiple vantage points. They had agreed that
at the final moment, just before he made the last baton disappear, Tom and
Adam would both focus on the baton and Seven would keep her eyes on Zandor.

After that their plan was simple, wait till the end of his show and then
confront him.  If he produced the missing baton than they would just admit
that they were mistaken and apologize for bothering him. What they would do
if he did not produced the baton had been barely been discussed.

As the final flaming baton hung far above the crowd perfectly balanced
between inertia and gravity, Zandor struck his dramatic pose and the baton
disappeared. Adam wondered if the baton had merely been cleverly designed
to lose its flame and thereby tricking the eye of the viewer into believing
in its disappearance, but this did not explain how the baton could make its
way back to earth undetected, at least by him.

As Zandor made his way through the crowd, Adam and Seven waited toward the
back so that they would be one of the last people that he approached.

"That was amazing." said Seven as she put two dollars into his hat. "Thank
you." he smiled and gave a slight bow. Lose strands of his long black hair
fell across his face. "This the forth time I have seen your show and I
still can't understand how you make that last baton disappear." "Well, its
just magic." he smiled with a flourish of his arm and then turned away to
pick up and douse the still flaming batons from the stands. Seven and Adam
followed him. "I have a bet with my boyfriend that it is real magic, though
he thinks I am crazy." Zandor turned back to them holding three of the
batons that he had recovered.  "Well, unfortunately your boyfriend wins.
It's not real magic." he flashed a tired smile and turned back to his task.
Seven persisted, "I hate to be pushy, but it is kind of an important bet.
Could you just show us all eight batons? We would be happy to help you
clean up." 

Zandor stopped and looked at them both along with Tom who by this time was
now standing with them. "Who are you people?" he asked. "Come on." Adam
said holding Seven's arm, "Let's go.  He said it was not magic. This is
totally crazy." Ignoring Adam's tug she said "We are just friends, who are
curious...and we believe that, well that maybe there is real magic." Seven
responded.  

"Well, you are all crazy." said Zandor.  "Are we any more crazy than a
magician trying to convince his audience that he does not actually do
magic?" said Tom. "Funny." said Zandor with a slight snort of approval. He
pulled off the hairband that held is ponytail in place and then turning
away he added. "But I really gotta go." "You can't show us eight batons."
Seven said less a challenge than as a statement of fact.  "Alright." he
said turning back.  "Here are three." He held up the three batons in his
hand.  "And there are four" he pointed to the remaining ones still in the
stands.  He then walked over to a duffel bad which he unzipped and brought
out three more batons.  "If my addition is correct, that brings us to ten.
Are you satisfied now?" Seven had followed him and looked at the batons
from the bag closely.  "I am willing to accept that I am naive enough about
magic that you could have somehow captured the last baton in your zipped
duffel bag, but none of these batons have ever been used." she said
comparing the shinny ends of the ones in from the bag with blackened ends
of the ones he retrieved from the stands.  He looked at them all for a
moment, his eyes narrowed as if trying but failing to find a point of focus
somewhere beyond them and then shook his head and said "Okay, you got me. I
am a magician.  What can I say?" 

"Oh come on." said Adam "This is ridiculous. Can we just go now?" "That's
amazing." said Tom quietly ignoring Adam. Seven just looked at him for a
moment and then slowly said "Wait, you can't be serious?" "Are you all
completely crazy?" said Adam. "First he tells you he is not a magician and
then he tells you he is a magician. You are just believing what you want to
believe. Can we just go?" "Suite yourself." said Zandor turning back to
packing his bags.  "You all can believe whatever you want to believe. I
really don't care."

Adam, Tom and Seven just stood there as Zandor continued to collect his
props into a couple of duffel bags. Seven then walked over to Zandor and
grabbed his sleeve. She held it tight. "Did you really make that baton
disappear?" Zandor looked at her shaking his head and breathed a sigh.
"What do you want me to tell you?" "I...I don't know." said Seven shaking
her head her hand still tightly holding his sleeve. He looked at her for a
moment his face framed by his long straight hair that now fell equally on
both sides and then said, "Yeah, it's magic.  I can make things disappear."
Seven let go of his sleeve. He looked at her again for a moment and then
with a half smile said, "Not what you expected, was it?" Seven just shook
her head. Tom had walked over to Seven and stood beside her quietly. Adam
stood a few steps behind them rustling the change in his pocket and wanting
to be somewhere else but not able to get himself to move.

Seven broke the silence. "Where are you from?" "I'm from New Jersey. But
listen, I really got to got to get packed up and then get something to eat.
I am starving, and then I need to find a place to sleep, so unless you can
help with any of that..." He turned back to his work. "Can we get you some
diner?" asked Seven. "That would be great." said Zandor.  In silence they
helped Zandor gather his belongings. 

The four sat together in the booth of a diner that had been in the square
since 1961. It was the only place where Tom would agree to eat and the only
restaurant left in the square that was more than fifteen years old. Since
leaving the square, they had spoken very little and no one mentioned magic.
As they waited for their food there was another awkward silence. Finally
Zandor broke the silence saying "Listen, there is no school of magic. I
don't come from a long line of magicians. My parents are normal as far as I
know."

"Well that's a relief." Adam joked as the server placed plates of food in
front of them.

"So can you perform other sorts of magic?" asked Seven. "You saw me, I make
batons disappear." he said through a mouthful of burger. "Can you make
other things disappear?" asked Tom "Broccoli." said Zandor still chewing.
"Broccoli?" asked Seven.  "Yeah, my mom used to serve me broccoli which I
hated." Zandor said dipping a couple of fries into ketchup. "Partially
because she was not a very good cook, but at some point she got on this
vegetable kick and she was pretty adamant that I finish everything on my
plate." he said now dipping four fries at a time. "I hated her broccoli so
much. One day when I was about twelve, I was staring at the broccoli and
hating it so much and then it just disappeared." "Wow, how did you feel?"
asked Seven "How did I feel?" Zandor put down his fries and leaned across
the table.  "Have you ever made anything disappear? Have you ever even seen
anything disappear?  Think about it. How would you feel? For your whole
life the world has behaved according to a specific set of rules, boundaries
that frame life and make it bearable and then suddenly one of those
boundaries disappears." 

They were all quiet for a moment. Zandor felt some satisfaction as he
watched them coming to terms with consequences of their little adventure
which had been made at his expense. "It kinda sucks, doesn't it?" he said.

"So why do you do it?" "It's a living. Well, not a very good one. It's all
I know. Why do you all do what you do?"

"Does anyone else know about your magic?" asked Tom. "I told a former
girlfriend once. I actually demonstrated it for her." Finishing everything
on his plate, he was now taking french fries from Seven's plate. "What
happened?" "The next morning, before I even got up, she was gone. Didn't
even leave a pair of underwear." There was a pause and then Tom asked, "I'm
assuming you did not make her disappear." "Yeah, funny." said Zandor
looking down at his plate and laughing to himself. "And now there is just
you all." He looked up at them.

"So how about a place to stay?" he said. "I've been staying with a friend
for the past two weeks and he is getting kinda tired of my being
there...like three days ago."  

Seven looked at Adam nervously and then turned back but it was enough to
raise suspicion. Adam lived by himself in a one bedroom apartment which had
a large closet space just off the living room. It was big enough for a
small mattress.  Seven knew this because she had stayed there for three
weeks before she found her present apartment. Adam confessed that he had
some room, but then said he had gotten in trouble with his landlord for
having guests stay overnight. Tom suggested that there was a room opening
up in the cooperative house where he lived, but that Zandor would need to
come by for an interview and that the decision would not be up to him.

Seven said she was sorry but her roommates would not allow her to have a
guest stay with them. They had all finished their meals. Seven said that it
was getting late for her and she needed to be up early in the morning. Adam
offered to pay the bill and got the attention of the waiter. "Well, thanks
for the meal." said Zandor. "I guess, I be seeing you around." "Yes." they
all agreed and yet no arrangement had been made. They said good bye outside
the entrance to the restaurant and then each one made their way home alone.

END


"Did you make her disappear?" laughed
Seven.  "Yeah, funny." he said and then suddenly took on a serious tone.
"Maybe I did. Maybe you all should be a little more careful about who you
hang out with." He looked down at his plate and chuckled at his own joke.
"
"So why do you do it?" asked Adam. "I have to make a living and the
audience likes it. I think that somewhere inside they all know that
something has just happened that is not quite right...enough to be
intriguing and make them open their wallets but not so much that
they...well, have a nervous breakdown." He chewed on some bread and butter
from the middle of the table.  "It also the same routine every night.  The
rhythm of repetition gives it a sense of being normal."

"But then why be a magician at all?" asked Seven "Yeah, that's a better
question.  Not sure. I was not very good a school, but I was pretty good at
juggling, so I guess I just played to my strengths."



"Wait. This all can't be real." said Adam. :wq

Adam, caught off guard, reluctantly admitted that he had a small space
where Zandor could stay temporarily. "Great." said Zandor.

"Is your name really Zandor?" asked Seven. "No it's Alexander, but everyone
called me Zander growing up and, well, Zandor just seemed like a natural
progression when I became a magician."



"Alright, so you fed me. Now what's the favor." he said pushing his plate
forward and resting his elbows on the table. "I am not saying I will do
it." he raised a hand "I'm just curious." Tom, Seven and Adam all looked at
each other. Oddly enough now that they believed they were talking to a real
magician, their request seemed even more absurd than it had before.
"Well..." Seven said. "Tom here wants to go back in time."

Zandor looked at Tom for moment and then sputtered a laugh, "Well, that
just ain't going to happen." He shook his head. "You think I can make you
back in time?" He paused. "I could probably make you disappear, but then
where you end up is anyone's guess." He looked away for a moment, "but even
thinking about these sorts of things is not really good for my mental
state."

Looking back at Tom he asked, "Why do you want to go back in time anyway?
What's wrong with today? According to the news the crime rate has never
been lower." "That" Tom said pointing to the television over the bar which
was broadcasting a football game. "Before television and movies there was
vaudeville. There weren't just a few movies stars making a fortune, but
thousands of live performers, like yourself, making a living performing and
playing music." "That sure ain't like today." agreed Zandor.  "But what is
that to you? Are you a performer?" "No" said Tom. It is just that...well,
it is just a world I want to be in."

"Well more power to you, but you are going to have to find a more powerful
magician than me." said Zandor "Are there others?" asked Seven. "Beats me.
I have never met one which is another thing I try not to think about too
often." He winced. 

"Why don't you just make the television disappear?" asked Adam who felt he
might as well try to be helpful. "Make all of them disappear?" asked Tom.
"Well you could just start with this one." suggested Adam. "Yeah." said
Seven. "Why don't more people come to your show? Because they are watching
television in here."

"Do you know of a place to stay?" "What?" said Seven. "You need to go back
in time. I need a place to stay. To be honest, I think my request is a
little more practical." "There is a room opening up in my house." Tom
offered. "Is it cheap and by cheap I mean free. I have been staying on a
friends couch for the past couple of weeks and he is getting kind of tired
of my being there, as in, he asked me not to come back...two days ago.
Generally, I need to decide between rent or food." 

"When will the room be available?" asked Seven. "We are interviewing people
this week. So probably by early next week." "Interviewing? You mean I need
to take an interview to get the room?" asked Zandor "Yes. It is a
cooperative house. But...well, I already know you, so that should help."

"You got anything in the meantime?" Zandor asked. Seven looked at Adam.
Adam lived by himself in a one bedroom apartment which had a large closet
space just off the living room. It was big enough for a small mattress.
Seven knew this because she had stayed there for three weeks before she
found her present apartment.

Adam, caught off guard, reluctantly admitted that he had a small space
where Zandor could stay temporarily. "Great." said Zandor.

"Is your name really Zandor?" asked Seven. "No it's Alexander, but everyone
called me Zander growing up and, well, Zandor just seemed like a natural
progression when I became a magician."

"What about the TV?" asked Adam. "I'll think about it." said Zandor. "I am
not even sure I can do it." he added. "Just pretend it is a baton." said
Tom.

"He did interview at the Tom's house?" Adam asked Seven

The TV disappears. You do realize the problem? People are going to notice.
And it just does feel right to give everyone people I have never met before
an existential crisis. We could wait and come back later. NO do it now. We
could cause a distraction maybe remove a shelf of bottles or cause a tap to
explode. No I am not a vandal. 

They probably won't believe it or no one will believe them. The are also in
the middle of a game, so I feel kinda bad. Also, I don't know if I can do
it also there is the problem of crisis. All of these people could be
watching your show instead of some dumb television. Well my show is not on
right now, but I get the idea.

What about the place to live. For the past week, I have been on a friends
couch and he does not like it that much. Okay, we will try.

Zandor looked at the television. He concentrated with all his might. And
then he made no sound. And the television was gone. For a moment the just
looked at the spot where the television had been and said nothing. 

Shoplift at Artinos why, because it reminds me that I exist.



Make earth disappear!


********

He saw a squirrel outside his window eating a pear. Squirrels did not have
to worry about their diet or what they ate. It was as if perfection was
staring at us every day and we refused to see it. It seemed so obvious that
he wondered if he was really the only person who did not see it. Maybe this
was all just a game waiting for him to realize.

Why did anyone who aspired to any sort of intellectual status feel guilty
about this box. They would deny watching it as if they honestly believed
this. The whole country had moved into a sense of denial as if it were an
epidemic. But had it always been this way? Did people always feel a
conflict between their actual lives and their perceived lives. Was modern
life just filled with more guilty pleasures. 

Even the dog ignores the television. The dogs life seems changed little
since his domestication. In the modern world his freedom is more restricted
but his interaction with the world remains the same.  He sleeps. He eats.
He sleeps without regard for modern light. Still finding his rythm of the
sun. Television sets have not effect on the dog. He rides in cars, but
without intention or car. It is not a great machine of conveyance, but
simply a place to be like any other. He is equally oblivious to his own
mortality yet still shares our instinct for survival. 

"Look at them. They are terrified of even the slightest hint of human..."
he paused and turned to her, "disorder." For a moment neither of them
spoke. Self-consciously, Seven fingered the earbuds in her own pocket. 


