As we sat in the shade of the willow tree, Dad pointed out the different
types of boats on the river. None of the boats were very big. They were
mostly sail boats and mostly used as trainers by the local colleges, but
Dad described each one as seriously as if it where an ocean going vessel.
He told us which ones were fast and why, which ones could carry the most
cargo and how many crew they each needed.

As he spoke, we paid close attention. Dad was still Dad, even for Michael
my older brother who was almost 16. Dad's taught muscled arms seemed as
strong as steel and six foot frame seemed as tall as tall could be.

As he gathered us into a circle to describe his plan, I could sense
that something dangerous was about to happen and that there was no way
I could avoid it. Michael and Wendy never seemed scared. It was as if
they and Dad were made of the same material, but I was different. I
sometimes felt like I wasn't supposed to be there, but there was no
where else to go. 

The plan was to capture one of the sail boats, in particular one of
the 21-foot Sonars which Dad described as the most worthy boat on the
river. The only question was how to launch our attack. 

Not far to our left was a sandy spot where a few people were putting their
kayaks into the river. Dad decided that we should wait until one of the
two-person kayaks was left temporarily unattended and then quickly and
quietly commandeer it for our own.

When the moment came, Dad signaled to us move. By the time we reached the
sand we were running full speed. As arranged, I jumped on front and lay
low.  Michael took the front seat and Dad took the back. Wendy pushed hard
from the shore and leapt onto the rear of the boat and then lay low as well.
We were quickly underway with Dad and Michael paddling hard. 
   
The other people on the launch area seemed startled by our actions, but
made no attempt to stop us. By the time the couple noticed we had taken
their kayak, we were far out on the river. I could hear their shouts and
glanced back to see them waving their arms in a way that seemed indicate
they felt there must be some misunderstanding.

I could also see the intent faces of Wendy, Michael and Dad who were
looking past me and focused on a single sail boat that Dad had pointed out
as our target. The boat was coming toward us and moving fast in the strong
wind. It was tacking at a slight angle to our course cutting from right to
left across our bow.  The two college students piloting the boat tried to
make adjustments to their course in order to avoid us, but we countered
each of their moves.

As the students began to notice the seriousness of the situation, they
started to wave us off in an attempt to avoid a collision, but Micheal and
Dad just dug in harder making their intention clear to even the most naive
observer.

By this point, Wendy had moved forward of Dad and we were all three
standing. Wendy and Micheal both barefoot with pants rolled up past their
ankles. Wendy with dark streaks of mud she had managed to smear on her face
and Michael with his T-shirt tied roughly about his head.  

A moment before collision, we jumped to their boat with feral screams and
teeth bared. The students dropped their lines and rudder and stood staring
as Wendy and Michael rushed toward them. They both put out their hands in a
half-hearted attempt to defend themselves, but their soft cafeteria-fed
bodies were no match for our sharp hungry frames wielding paddles and
savagery. Wendy and Michael slowly marched them backwards right off the
boat and into the water. They bobbed in their life jackets and in the wake
of the commotion and tried to make their way clear of the boat.

Dad grabbed the rudder and shouted commands. Wendy held the main sheet and
I the jib.  Instinctively we pulled the sails taught as if we had done this
all our lives. The boat swung round quickly facing back out toward the
river and the other boats, and was again underway in a strong wind.
Micheal stood on the bow and with some paper he had found and rolled into
spyglass and he pointed to our next target -- a boat of similar size that
we were no doubt intended to seize and loot. 

But a few moments later, he saw and pointed out a motorized launch leaving
the harbor headed our way. It seemed that word of our adventure had reached
the dock.  Dad immediately changed course and we headed for a stone wall
that bordered the river near a road bridge.  Although the motor boat was
moving fast, we were not far from the stone wall and a metal ladder that
was set into the stone wall leading up to the roadway above. As we
approached, we dropped the sails and Dad guided the boat quickly against
the ladder.

Dad held the ladder while we each scampered up. We left the boat rocking
aimlessly, its sails helplessly flapping the water. When we all reached the
top, Wendy and Michael quickly redressed themselves and we made our way
onto the sidewalk and down into the city streets with only a little
dampness on our clothing to betray our exploit. As we began to feel safe
from pursuit, we slowed our hurried pace and at first Wendy and then
Michael began to laugh, a deep and uncontrollable laugh. I laughed too.
Dad smiled but in a way that merely meant, "Job well done."  He kept us
moving along and as the day slowly turned to dusk we made our way home.

I don't remember mom, at least, that is what Michael and Wendy tell me.
They I say I was too young to remember, but I have a memory of sitting at a
table in a kitchen and the sun coming through curtains, curtains so thin as
to barely keep out the light and beside me is a woman and her hair is dark
and long and her skin is pale and she is standing next to me, just standing
and she is my mother. I have never shared this memory with Michael and
Wendy. It is mine and they cannot take it.

The story goes that mom died when were young. After mom died, Dad moved us
to the city and we lived in an apartment which is where my real memories
began. Michael and I shared a room and Wendy had her own room. We lived on
the 34th floor and could look out over the city. Even though our building
had many more floors above ours, we could not imagine a better view than
the one we had. Between two buildings we could even see the water and boats
passing out to sea. We would spend hours looking out the window at the city
and making up stories about all the people we could see in the buildings
around us.

This was also a time when we still went to school. I liked school. Michael
and Wendy say they didn't, but that is not how I remember it. I remember
staying after school in Mr. Klein's room. Mr. Klein taught social studies.
He had white hair and wore checked shirts. He had a box filled with colored
pencils and after school he let me use them to draw. Sometimes we talked,
but mostly I just sat and drew pictures.

Then we stopped going to school and shortly after that we moved. Michael
told us that Dad quit his job so we could no longer live in the apartment
building. I was sad to leave. All my memories of the apartment are happy
ones, real or imagined, I am not sure it makes a difference.

We moved to a neighborhood south of the center of the city where the
buildings were not as tall, so that you could see more of the sky. The
storefronts advertised auto repair, clothing, televisions, liquor and
hardware. Their facades were colorful and worn. Some stores seemed to sell
just about anything, their entrances bursting with assorted wares.

Our apartment was just above a small store or bodega as it was called in
Spanish. Dad told us that the neighborhood had changed hands a few times
over the past half century. The present residents were mostly Puerto Rican.
Dad said we were Yankees which was a kind of American and as much as Dad
ever said about where we were from.

Dad spoke Spanish with the natives as he called them. We were living in
their land, part of a patchwork that was now America, won over in battles
so subtle that no one knew they were being fought. He said it was better to
know the enemy than to fear them.

That evening after we returned home Dad went down to the bodega. He often
spent time there talking to Mr. Santana who owned the store and our
apartment.  The store was small and cramped and sold a variety of packaged
food and assorted other items such as pencils, balloons and bags of toy
soldiers. A few weeks earlier, Mr. Santana had put a small television in
his store. Dad was continually trying to convince him to get rid of it.
Mr. Santana told Dad that he just put it in for his customers. He said they
liked to watch the football matches. But every time we visited the store
Mr. Santana always seemed to be staring at the screen.

Dad hated television or the idiot box as he referred to it. Sometimes if we
were walking in the evening and saw a television screen through a window in
a house, he would stop us and point out how dead the people looked, their
faces illuminated in dull blueish glow. We would stand there watching them
watch TV and he would say "They might as well be dead and they don't even
know it."

Dad also disliked any contraption, as he called them, that made people lazy
or stupid and this included everything from air conditioners to ice makers.
But Dad also had a knack for fixing things and it was these very sorts of
contraptions that Dad was often employed to fix by Mr.  Santana, who would
come to our door asking for Dad when just about anything in his store or
building was broken. Dad would grumble that if it weren't for him nothing
in this place would work and that might just be good thing.  But he always
went along with Mr. Santana and often returned complaining "Don't know how
people can live in world they can't fix."

Soon after we arrived, Dad got a job at a small factory that manufactured
lace. The kind of lace that was found on curtains and women's clothing. Not
that we knew much about lace or women's clothing, but that was what was on
display in the dusty glass cabinets inside the entrance to the factory.

The factory was housed on one floor of a large two-story brick building and
had been in business for over 70 years. It was owned by two old men who
were brothers and who had inherited the business from their father and who
had remained throughout the neighborhood's cultural transitions. 

Dad got the job one afternoon when we were exploring our new neighborhood.
One of the old men who owned the factory was showing us around the factory
floor which seemed to house more machines than people. We were standing
next to an older woman who was bent over trying to remove a tangle of
thread that had gotten wrapped around a part of the machine where it was
not supposed to be wrapped. The old man complained that they used to have a
repair person on staff, but now it would take weeks to find someone who
could come to the factory and repair a machine.

Dad bent over and began helping the woman remove the tangled thread. He
then began to inspect the machine while we all just stood and watched. He
told the man he could repair the machine for him and then told us to run
along and he would met us back at home later. The old man looked at Dad,
not sure what to make of him, but seemed tired of always trying to make
sense of the world and just smiled and nodded and then walked us to the
door and said good bye.

It took Dad the whole afternoon to get the machine back up and running. He
had to manufacture a replacement part in the factory's machine shop which
Dad said, looked like it had not been used in 20 years. 

From that point forward, Dad spent most of his days at the factory making
up for over a decade of neglect. Though whenever we dropped by the factory,
we would as often find Dad on the factory floor as in the office with the
two old brothers, trying to convince them to make this or that improvement,
but the old men had been doing things the same way for too long to make
this or that improvement. They would listen to his pitch, but in the end
usually decided in favor of keeping things the way they were.

One morning when we arrived we found Dad standing quietly on the factory
floor. When he saw us he raised his hand for us to stop and said, "Quiet.
Listen. What do you hear?" Not knowing what we were listening for, but
wanting to provide an answer Micheal said, "Weaving machines?" "A machine
is not working properly. Can you tell which one?" He asked. "You need to
listen carefully."  

To me the factory always sounded like a thousand typewriters all
perpetually typing a thousand different manuscripts. But Dad heard
something different. He said, "Machines are designed by man and man can't
design something except by intention. Just as you can look at any object in
nature and know that it is damaged, even one you have never seen before.
God, like man, does not intentionally design imperfection. And imperfection
has a sound as distinct the very air."

"Listen." he said again and walked us to one of the lace making machines
and pointed out a small rod that had come lose on one end and was now
lazily and repetitively knocking into a nearby strut every time the spindle
to which it was still attached made a rotation.

With Dad at the factory, we spent most days out on our own. Michael usually
set the agenda. For weeks we mapped the city's sewer system. We tried to
reach the roofs of the tallest buildings in the city. We built a tree fort
in a local park. Rainy days, we often spent in the library once playing hid
and seek until we were asked to leave. 

Our days were only punctuated by breakfast and dinner, which we had at the
same time each day with Dad. We were responsible for gathering and
preparing food. Dad provided Michael with money each week, which was never
quite enough to cover what we needed by conventional means. It was
understood that we needed to obtain food however we could and no questions
would be asked. We knew where and when to find bread tossed in the dumpster
behind the bakery shop as well as produce behind the grocery and how to
negotiate with the sellers at the close of the outdoor markets.

The first spring after we arrived, Dad began building a garden on the roof
of our building. But the garden did not look like any garden we had seen
before. It was special, Dad said, because it did not require soil and could
grow plants faster and larger than conventional earth gardens. The garden
was made from long pieces of gutter and pipe that he found or retrieved
from the factory.  The gutter and pipe was used to hold the plants which
initially consisted of herbs and tomatoes in long rows. Together they
formed a continuous track that wound around the entire roof making its way
from where it began about eight feet up fixed to the side of a brick
chimney down to a wide and shallow water tank resting on the roof. The
water flowed continuously down until it reached the tank where it was
pumped back up to the top of the garden pipe system.  In the tank were
small fish which Dad said provided the nutrients that the plants needed to
grow.

In order to get water on our roof, Dad had tapped a spigot into a water
pipe on the neighbor's roof and used a hose to reach our roof. When the
woman who owned the house next door saw what Dad had done she yelled at him
saying that he was stealing her water. Dad said that it was not much water
and that he was creating this garden as a model for the whole community.
She said he was crazy and should stop messing around on the roofs of
buildings. But for all her complaints, she never shut off the water.

Over time, the garden began producing tomatoes and peppers and squash and
garlic and lettuce and basil. It was sometimes more vegetables than we
could eat and Dad would share the extra produce with neighbors, though in
exchange they usually had to listen to him pitch his vision of soil-less
gardens on all the roofs of the neighborhood. He would say, "We can feed
the whole neighborhood with real food and not be dependent on whatever
comes in those metal cans and plastic bags that Mr. Santana passes off as
food in his bodega." 

When he told this to Mr. Santana, he just laughed and said, "Do you eat
only what you grow on the roof?" Dad said, "No" but he said he had proved
it was possible. Mr. Santana laughed, "then come back and talk to me when
you can grow a bag of potato chips. Because that is what people want to
eat." 

Dad was often dragging neighbors up to the roof to show them the garden.
They would ask, "Why would I want to put a garden on my roof when I can buy
what I need from the store?" But there was one old man who lived alone in
an apartment on the first floor of our building and who spoke little
English and who seemed to appreciate Dad's work and would often visit and
help take care of the plants. In exchange, Dad let him take whatever
vegetables he wanted.

Dad's vision for the neighborhood went beyond just roof top gardens. At
night he worked on detailed plans for the entire neighborhood that
including systems for water collection, orchards in the middle of the
street growing up through the asphalt and furnaces that used waste to
generate heat. His plan took the form of detailed and scale drawing of the
neighborhood that he carefully created on sheet that was almost a yard on
each side. Each feature and building was color coded and included detailed
descriptors. I could spend hours watching him filling in plants and benches
as the plan seemed to come alive under his hand.

Once after dinner, he brought up Mr. Santana to show him the plans. After
listening to Dad, Mr. Santana laughed and said it sounded like what the
communist rebels told the people in his village, before they started
kidnapping the boys and stealing their food.

Late one summer evening while we were finishing the dishes, we heard Dad
and another voice shouting on the roof. We went up and found Dad arguing
with the neighbor's son. The boy looked about 20 years old, was holding a
bag of vegetables that he had collected from Dad's garden. Dad called him a
thief and demanded that he return them. The boy said, "How can you call me
a thief when you steal our water to raise your plants." He then added
something in Spanish that I took to mean that he thought Dad was crazy.

Dad closed the gap between them and they now stood just inches apart, the
boy a inch or so shorter than Dad standing in shorts and a tee-shirt
hanging from his lean frame. I could see the boy's clenched fists, the
muscles in his jaw flexing as he looked straight at Dad.  

Suddenly Dad reached for the bag with his right hand. The boy pulled the
bag out of Dad's reach and tried to push Dad away with his other hand. Dad
grabbed the boy's hand. The boy dropped the bag and swung at Dad, his fist
grazing Dad's chest. Dad then lunged forward and punched the boy on the
side of his face. The boy fell back landing against roof vent and rolled on
his side. He slowly got up and wiped blood from his nose. He shouted
something at Dad in Spanish that we did not understand and walked back to
the stair entrance on his side of the roof. Dad stood their watching him go
but did not respond. Dad picked up the bag of produce and we all went down
stairs.

That evening before going to bed no one spoke much. Sometime after midnight
I woke to the sound of metal being smashed against metal and the whoops and
cries of multiple voices. The sound was coming from the roof. Michael was
already awake. I looked over at him as he lay awake in his bed. The light
from the street outlining his profile. He did not return my look and said
nothing. The next morning the three of us went up on the roof and found
Dad's garden completely smashed. The pipes were all broken. The vegetables
and plants were crushed. The tank upside down and the fish dead on the
roof. We never saw Dad go back on the roof after that evening and he never
spoke about the incident.

A night later a rock was thrown through our window while we were eating
dinner. Michael and Wendy ran to the window, but could not see anyone. We
all looked back at Dad who was still sitting at the table. He looked at
Michael and said, "Make sure to clean up all the glass and place a piece of
cardboard over the broken section of window." He then got up to get his
coat and left. 

We did not see him again until the next morning at breakfast when he told
us that we should pack up our clothes and be ready to leave the apartment
by the time he returned that evening.

That day we quietly packed up everything we could carry with us. Wendy and
Michael had backpacks and I had a duffel bag to which I had sewed shoulder
straps. That evening we left the apartment without even saying good bye to
Mr. Santana. Dad said he would come back to get anything we needed and
could not carry with us.

We boarded a bus at the end of our street traveling neither toward nor away
from the city center which always remained in the background with its tall
glass and metal towers standing at the center of an urban sprawl. The
interior of the bus was brightly lit, more so than seemed necessary for the
late hour of the evening. The passengers included a few sleepy men and
women coming home from the sort of work that served those who kept more
traditional working hours. At the back of the bus sat a tight group of
restless teenagers that all seemed a little older than Michael and Wendy.
They laughed as a girl sitting on a boy's lap was unable to keep her
balance whenever the bus accelerated or changed direction.

Soon we were on busy street full of people and lights and noise. The kids
tumbled off laughing and teasing each other and quickly became part of the
crowd mingling and moving along sidewalk. The bus continued on leaving the
bright lights behind. A few minutes later we were travelling down a wide
street in a quiet neighborhood. Nearing an intersection with no apparent
distinguishing features, Dad indicated that the next stop was ours. 

As the bus drove away, we found ourselves standing on a dark and unfamiliar
sidewalk carrying everything we owned on our back while Dad took his
bearings. A few houses had lights on inside. Many did not. Some had their
windows covered with plywood and looked liked they had not been lived in
for years. The street light across the street flickered and then went out
joining most of the other street lights on the street.

As we walked, we passed a few people sitting on their stoops or around a
car in the warm summer night. The people we passed mostly ignored us. A few
cars drove by. Some came by slowly, their windows down and playing loud
music. Sometimes we heard someone call out and could not tell if they were
addressing us. Either way, we made no attempt to respond and kept moving
forward.

We walked for about 10 blocks until we came to a house set back off the
street. It stood on a small rise and apart from the other houses in the
neighborhood. The house was large and looked as wide as it was tall. All of
the windows on the first floor had been boarded up. Some of its shutters
hung at odd angles and some were missing all together. It did not look
happy to see us. The house wore a weary expression that said I have lived
alone for a long time and I am too tired for this.

Without a word, Dad led us through the iron gate and up to the front porch
where we stood while Dad worked a large latch that held the double doors
shut. The street was quiet except for the sound in the distance of a dog
barking at an intruder or some other perceived threat. 

Inside the foyer the house was pitch dark. As Dad fished through his
backpack, we could just make out a set of stairs directly ahead of us that
led to the upper floors. From a window on the second floor landing, a beam
of moonlight shown down to where we were standing and in it floated a storm
of dust particles animated after years of slumber by our sudden entry.

Dad turned on a flashlight and we carefully made our way around the first
floor identifying what appeared to be a dinning room, kitchen and living
room. The beam from Dad's flashlight illuminated few pieces of furniture
and walls of cracked and pealing plaster, but missed small creatures that
ran from us across the floor and into the walls.  

Dad then led us up the stairs and into the first room at the top of the
stairs. The room was bare of furniture, but it felt like it had been a
bedroom.  One window provided a dim light from the street. We put down our
packs and Dad placed a large handkerchief on the floor. He brought some
bread and cheese and water from his bag and we sat and ate quietly. As we
ate, Dad stood silently looking out the window and surveying the
neighborhood. 

After we finished, Dad said, "Okay, time to get some rest. We are going to
have a big day tomorrow." We instinctively looked for where we were
supposed to sleep but the room was a box without feature, so we lay close
to together and tried to find comfort on the hardwood floor resting our
heads on a shirt or sweater retrieved from our packs. I was the last to
fall asleep that night. I lay awake too anxious to close my eyes thinking
over the journey that led us here and the journey that lay ahead until
finally sleep overcame me. 

The next morning we all rose early, as through the window that provided dim
light from the street that night, now came streaming the unfiltered morning
sun. As we woke Dad was standing by the window looking out. He turned to us
and said, "Who needs to pee?" smiling as he knew his question would have
its intended effect. "The bathroom is down the hall." he said, but before
we were on our feet, he added, "But the toilet is out of order. This house
has no running water." "It has no gas or electricity for that matter." He
went on. "In fact, it is completely disconnected from what is presently
known as the civilized world." As he spoke, we all hoped this would not be
one of his long lectures. "So for the moment, I placed two buckets in the
bathroom.  One is empty and one contains dirt. Place some dirt in the empty
bucket and then use it to relieve yourself then add some more dirt.  Once
you are done, take both bucket into the backyard and bury the contents of
one and add more dirt to the other."

Returning with the buckets, we saw Dad leaning with both hands on the back
porch railing. He looked at us smiling and said, "She's a beaut ain't she?"
We stopped and stood looking up at Dad. Even Michael and Wendy seemed a bit
overwhelmed by all that had happened in the past few days. Shading his eyes
from the low morning sun, Michael asked, "Whose house is this?" "Why this
is our house." said Dad with all the confidence of a used car salesman. "It
was left here, abandoned by its former occupants. Unable to care for it, I
suppose. Needs a little work" He said as he turned to flick a lose paint
chip off the clapboard siding "but sound as can be" he patted the same
piece of clapboard. "Why this house has been standing here since before the
turn of the century" he looked up at the house. As we tried to make sense
of everything he was saying, Wendy asked "Do you think they will want it
back?" "Who will want it back?" Dad asked vaguely still looking up at the
house and as if he sincerely did not understand the question. Wendy added,
"The people who left it." Dad quickly turned round and growled "Just let
'em try!" He then laughed out loud and Wendy and Michael laughed with him
and then Michael raised his fist and shouted "Hurrah!" joined by Dad and
Wendy in turn.

Dad then took us on a tour of the large back yard pointing out the future
location of a vegetable garden, fruit trees, water tanks, a green house and
a windmill. There was no hesitation in Dad's future. Each of the features
he described felt more real to him than the uneven earth, clumps of weeds
and trash and scrap that presently made up the yard.

After touring the yard, we went back inside and sat around a large table
that seemed like it had been there since the house was first built. Four
miss-matched chairs had been placed around the table and Dad had removed a
couple of boards from one of the windows, so some light could enter. We ate
the remaining bread and cheese from last night. Dad inventoried the state
of the house. In addition to no running water, gas and electricity, he
listed a leaking roof, broken windows and a lack of basic furniture.

It took us three days to establish a working zone of water on the first
floor of the house which included one bathroom and the kitchen. The process
began with shutting off all the water valves we could find and turning them
on one by one starting with the main valve in the street until we found
leaks. Dad would fix the leaks and we would move on to the next leak or
broken pipe. 

Initially our progress was hampered by not having the necessary tools or
materials for whatever we were trying to fix. When we were stuck, Dad would
redirect our efforts to a different project and he would head out to find
the needed tools and materials. We did not know where he went, but guessed
he was going back to the factory since nothing he brought home looked new
and some tools only stayed in our house as long as we needed them.

After three days of using the buckets, we were all relieved to have a
working toilet. As we all stood watching the first successful flush, Dad
said, "By 300AD, the Romans had completed a system of sewers that carried
their waste from the city. Our progress is slow but sure."

Over the remainder of the week, we reconnected the gas stove and brought
power to the refrigerator. There was no plan to bring power any other part
of the house. We were unable to get the hot water tank working which Dad
said was a blessing in disguise. It meant that we would need to continue
taking cold showers. Even in the warm weather, the cold showers felt too
cold. I could not imagine even taking a shower as the days got cooler. It
also meant that we would not have gas heat, though Dad said he would work
out a plan for heating the house in the winter.

Each morning, as we sat at the table having breakfast, Dad would review
what needed to be accomplished for the day. If it was complicated, he would
provide a detailed drawing showing exact dimensions, placements and listing
materials and instructions. Sometimes he would refer to his map of the
property, constructed on multiple sheets of paper and which continued to
grow in detail. If a task required a new skill, he would lead us in the
effort himself, though often we worked on our own with Michael in charge.  

Dad still spent a few days each week at the factory. When he was home
during the day, he was often in his study working on his drawings and plans
or getting us to help him measure some section of house or yard often by
just pacing it off. He also spent time reading books he got from the
library and sometimes in the evening he would read to us a passage about
how some civilization or society had 

Since our projects often required material, one of our evening tasks was
scavenging. Dad kept a running list of items that we needed for the house
including tools, mechanical fittings and furniture. About once a week, we
would head out at night to search abandoned houses, dumpsters or look
through what people left out on the curb. We started to learn which parts
of town were best to find furniture or fittings and when to look.

Over the next couple of months, we repaired the roof, fixed windows, found
furniture, stock piled wood, cleared the yard and cultivated a garden, and
slowly scraped away the detritus of previous habitation. The house began to
feel like our house.

Our house was one of three houses on a small block with each of the three
houses facing out in a different direction like the battlements of a
medieval fort. Our block itself was enclosed by two streets. One street
went straight along one side of our house and the other made a rough arc
meeting the first street at both ends and forming the shape of a capital D.

Our block was an anomaly among the rows of straight streets evenly lined
with houses that made up much of the neighborhood. To the north and toward
the city, the land rolled along fairly evenly, but our block was set in a
nook of a large hill that rose so steeply beside us that there were no
other houses across the street and to the south of our house. Dad said that
our unconventional block resulted from the geography of the land and proved
that "man could only get so far in his attempts to impose order on nature
before the very earth itself rebelled."

One of the three houses was a small cottage that sat directly behind our
house and that was so brightly painted that it made the drab houses of the
neighborhood look even more drab. In it lived an old man who spent much of
his time puttering about tending to his garden or bird feeders.

The third house on our block which sat next to the old man's cottage looked
in worse shape than ours, at least from the outside.  If it weren't for the
two boys and their mother that lived there, I would have assumed it was
abandoned. The screen door at the back of the house hung loosely from the
door frame and slapped against the house in the wind. A large hole had been
gnawed into one of the eves by squirrels who lived in the roof with
careless abandon. In the yard there was an old couch, what looked like a
washing machine and the husk of a rusting car.

At night, we could see into both the houses from Wendy's room where we
often gathered after evening chores and before going to bed. As the days
got shorter, we found ourselves gathering in her room earlier and earlier.
Without electric lights, our daily routines were dictated more by the sun
than the clock. Often we would be cleaning up from dinner just as the last
remaining rays of sun light made their way over the horizon. Before going
to bed, we lit candles so that we could see more easily when we brushed our
teeth and made our way upstairs, but we usually blew them out when we got
to our rooms, letting the night into our lives and gathering together in
the dark.

Sometimes we would sit looking out of Wendy's window and into the brightly
lit rooms of the houses behind ours making up stories about what the old
man or the boys were doing. The old man offered little fodder for
invention. Every evening, he moved slowly about in the warm light of his
kitchen, quietly tracing a path between his refrigerator, his stove and a
small dinning table in a routine so consistent that he seemed like a
mechanical figurine in one of those miniature Christmas village displays.

The boys were less predictable. Lights went on and off in different rooms
and at different times and sometimes seemed to stay on all night. In one
room, we could usually see the bluish glow of a television. We rarely saw
their mother.

The old man was named Desmond. We got to know him first. He was from
Barbados, but had lived in American for 30 years. I loved to visit his
house. It was filled with things everywhere you looked. On his shelves,
along with books, were framed pictures, trophy cups, a rusted metal toy
fire engine, a miniature statue of liberty. There was a star made of purple
and green pipe cleaners hanging from a window latch. All displayed with a
sense of purpose. You could ask him about any item from the brass bell with
the cracked wooden handle to the bright green and gold trophy with a figure
of a runner on top and he would tell you a story about how the bell or
trophy had found its way into his life.

There were also pictures of his wife who had died ten years ago and there
were pictures of his children who lived on the other side of the country.
There were older pictures of his sisters and brothers and his mother and
father at weddings and parties. I could tell by the way the people were
dressed which pictures were older and which were more recent and Desmond
would tell me who everyone was and who was nice and who was funny and who
liked to gossip.

Desmond had been a gardener for most of his live and though we never asked
for his help, no sooner would we start digging in the dirt when there would
be Desmond calmly making his way across the yard toward us, as if we had
been foolish to think that we could plant a single row of lettuce without
his advice. He directed our efforts with an assured wisdom that we always
followed even when it appeared to conflict with a directive from Dad. We
did this only because Dad listened to Desmond as well.

As long as I could remember, Dad never had any friends. He never really
even talked with anyone. Dad talked at people or through them or sometimes
completely around them, but with Desmond he listened. We would often see
Dad and Desmond standing at some part of the property or in the house
conferring over some aspect of a repair or future project.

I was fascinated by the boys who lived behind us, though it was not because
they led an unusual life. In fact, their life could hardly have been more
normal.  Weekday mornings, they left for school at just the same time each
day, walking to catch a bus at the end of the street. In the afternoon they
returned with the same punctuality and went straight inside their house. On
weekends, they would spend most of their time inside leaving only
occasionally to go to the store. Whenever I saw them, I would stop what I
was doing and watch, but they never seemed to notice me or any of us. It
was as if we did not exist, as if our whole world was invisible to them.

I asked Desmond about them but he would only tell me that their mother was
very sick. He said he worried a lot about her and did what he could to
help, but there was not much that could be done and that nature was taking
its unfortunate course. 

Then one evening in late November, the sound of sirens slowly pulled me out
of sleep. When I opened my eyes the sirens had stopped but the room was
filled with lights that swept across our ceiling alternating red and then
white. Michael and I went to the window and could see an ambulance and
police car in front of the boy's house. The house seemed to be bursting
with light from every window. We could see a police officer talking on his
radio. We could hear the radio voices of the police car and ambulance
barking bits of information that seemed to have meaning only for their
intended audience. As we watched, a few uniformed men moved about in the
house. Finally two of the men came out carrying a stretcher.  On the
stretcher was a body covered in a white sheet which the men inserted into
the back of the ambulance. The ambulance left.  The police car stayed for a
short while longer and then left. And then, once again the house stood dark
and silent.

In the morning, Desmond came to see Dad. He told Dad that the boys mother
had died that evening. He said the boys had come to his house to ask for
help when they found their mother awake in the middle of the night and
short of breath. Desmond went to the house, but by the time he got there he
found their mother had already died. He called an ambulance, but kept the
boys with him at his house. He said that they were both still at his house
and sleeping. From that point forward the boys remained with Desmond. There
was no funeral and no apparent relatives and no one ever spoke of their mom
again.

Two days after she died, Wendy and I went with the boys back into their
house to collect their belongings. They each carried a duffel bag that
Desmond had given them. The house was filled with things, but unlike
Desmond's house these things were scattered about without any sense of
purpose. There were clothes, books, toys, empty bags of chips and bottles
of soda, all seeming to rest where they had last been put down and
forgotten. As we followed the boys, I glanced back at Wendy, but she just
stared straight past me.

The house showed no evidence of death beyond the absence of their mother
whose body I knew had rested here until only a few days ago. And yet, I was
hesitant to touch anything, as if the house was contaminated with death
like a poison dust that I did not want to touch or breathe.

It was Wendy's job to make sure the boys collected an appropriate amount of
clothing to wear. Beyond that they each picked up things they wanted to
take. Sometimes they would hold an item in their hand and examine it
quietly trying to determine if it was something worth collecting like a
shell they had just found on the beach. Although they would be living just
next door, there was a sense that we were not coming back. 

For a long time, the house remained empty. No one claimed it. Desmond said
he thought it was owned by her bother who had moved back to the Dominican
Republic many years ago. 

The boys were named Dominic and Jordan and were both younger than me. They
continued going to school during the week and mostly kept to themselves.
When I visited Desmond's house sometimes Desmond would call them down from
their room as if I had come for the purpose of seeing them. They would make
their way down the stairs, Dominic the older one, followed by Jordan. We
would just look at each other not knowing what to say. 

It was around December that we began to notice people going in and out of
the boy's house. At night we would sometimes see lights on, usually in the
same room on the second floor. At first the new occupants remained fairly
quiet but after a couple of weeks we would sometimes hear a radio playing
and an occasional loud cry of either anguish or glee, it was hard to
discern.

Then one night just after going to bed, I woke to the sound of shouts and
screams and then what sounded like glass breaking. Our door opened and Dad
appeared. He woke Michael and told him to get dressed and meet him
downstairs. 

After Michael left, I went into Wendy's room. She was already at the
window. Together we saw Dad and Micheal crossing the yard to meet Desmond,
who also disturbed by the commotion was coming from his house to join them.
Shortly after they disappeared around the front of the house, the shouting
stopped and for about a half an hour the house remained quiet. 

Finally, we heard the front door open and close a few times. A few minutes
later, there were four people returning toward our house, Desmond, a
stranger and for a moment in the dark I could not distinguish Dad from
Michael whose gate and stature now matched Dad's one for one. As they got
closer, I could see that the stranger was a girl with short hair. She had
her arm around Michael's waist and was leaning on him as she walked. 

We heard them enter the house and downstairs we could hear the familiar
voices mixed the new and unfamiliar voice of the girl. I went back to my
room and got into to bed. I lay there unable to sleep until Michael
returned. I did not ask him any questions and did not close my eyes until
after I could hear the rhythmic breathing of his body asleep.

The next morning at breakfast no one mentioned the events of the previous
night. The girl was apparently still asleep in a room. After Dad left,
Wendy finally asked Michael what happened. He said they found two boys and
a girl at the house. The two boys were arguing with each other and the girl
was sitting against the wall crying. When they saw us enter the room, one
of the boys came toward, angry and us asking who we were and then without
waiting for an answer started yelling at us to get out.

We just stood there. Dad told them that they would have to leave or he
would call the police. The second boy started to run at us but tripped on
something on the floor and fell down and just lay there moaning quietly.
Dad repeated his demand that they leave the house. The boy who was standing
began yelling at us some more and then stopped and then kicked his friend
who was still on the floor and told him to get up and help him gather his
belongings.  He then yelled at the girl who was still leaning against the
wall crying.  He called her terrible names and told her to get her stuff
together and that they were leaving. Dad said, "No", that she was staying
with us. The one boy stopped and looked at us for a moment as if trying to
understand what Dad had said and then he swore some more and continued
gathering his stuff. It took them a while to gather their stuff even though
there was not much to gather from the room which was littered mostly with
trash, food and mattresses they had dragged from the other bedrooms.

After the boys left, we left with the girl. She was pretty confused, but
she seemed to understand that she was coming with us and not going with her
friends.  After we got home, we put her in the bedroom at the end of the
hall. I guess she must still be sleeping.

Later that afternoon as we worked in the yard repairing a clothes line, I
looked up to see the girl leaning with her elbows on the back porch
railing, her head resting in her hands as she watched us. Soon Wendy and
Michael noticed her as well and we all stopped our work and stood looking
back at her. She smiled and said, "Hey, what are you urchins up to?"
Micheal said, "Oh hi Kate", "This is Wendy and James, my brother and
sister." We greeted her but made no effort to close the gap that separated
us. "We are repairing a clothes line" said Wendy in answer to her question.
"Well, that seems like a wholesome activity for a crisp fall afternoon."
she smiled. "Do you want to help us?" asked Wendy. She said that she did
not think she was quite strong enough yet, but was sure she would be able
to join us soon.

That evening at dinner everyone was more quiet than usual. Kate looked
tired and did not seem up for much conversation. We all felt a bit awkward
around our new guest. After dinner, Desmond came over and made some tea for
Kate. He brewed it from jars of herbs he brought from his house. As we
cleaned up after dinner, Kate sat in a chair in the living room. She had
wrapped herself in a blanket and seemed to be shivering. Before we finished
our chores, Desmond helped her up to her room.

Over the next week, Kate's health slowly improved. She became more
talkative at dinner. She started to help with our work around the house and
yard. Each morning she joined us at breakfast while Dad talked about plans
for the day. One morning, when he described a plan to build a fence around
all three houses on our block in order to keep out the sort of degenerates
who had camped in the boy's house, she kidded him stating, "You mean people
like me." and then cast a smile at us. We just looked at Dad who,
ill-equipped for dealing with sarcasm, seemed confused and said "No, no, I
just meant the boys who had brought you there."

Although Kate sometimes teased Dad, she never argued with him and worked
along side us to complete any task he assigned. In fact, she had quickly
become the defacto leader of our small group taking over the role from
Michael, a role Michael had seeded surprisingly easily to her. One morning
she said, "Okay, gang let's get to work." and that was it. We all still
knew a lot more about how to build a fence, repair a window or just about
anything than she did, but she kept us working and made sure things got
done. 

One afternoon as we all worked on a cold frame to cover a winter garden
plot and constructed from scavenged windows and lumber, Kate stopped what
she was doing and stood quietly looking up at the sky. She then said,
"Everyone lie on the ground." Michael looked at Wendy, but Wendy was
already starting to lie down and so we all followed suit. "Michael, over
here by us." Kate said. Laying there looking up at the white clouds as they
moved across the deep blue background of sky, the Earth felt, for once,
like the giant orb that it was turning freely and effortlessly through
empty space.

Kate asked, to no one in particular "What do you see?" "Clouds" said
Michael in a tone that was calm and factual as if he were just seeing
clouds for the first time. "What else do you see?" she asked. "I see the
head of a dog with floppy ears" said Wendy. No one spoke as they either
tried to see Wendy's dog or looked for objects of their own. After a few
minutes, Michael said, "Maybe we should get back to work. Dad wants us to
finish the frame by the time he gets home." Kate made no effort to rise but
instead mused, "Did you ever wish you were so small that people couldn't
even see you, that you could walk among the blades of grass and never have
to bother with big people ever again?" As they all continued to stare into
the sky, Wendy said, "James used to wish he was a dog. For months he went
around growling and barking and walking on all fours." This is a story I
had heard before, but is not part of my memory. "I think I want to be a
fire fighter." said Michael, "that seems like a good job." "What does your
Dad do?" asked Kate. "He works in a factory that makes lace for curtains
and things." said Wendy. After a pause, Kate breathed "He certainly is an
unusual fellow." Her statement hung in the air as we tried to make sense of
it. Was Dad unusual? He certainly wasn't like other Dad's but it was just
not the sort of thing we considered. After a few more quiet minutes, Kate
hopped to her feet saying, "Okay soldiers, lets get back to work. We need
to be finished by dinner."

Sometimes I would look at Kate and try to reconcile Michael's image of the
girl crying against the wall in a room she shared with two boys who took
drugs, with the girl who lead us through our chores each day.  One early
morning when it was just the two of us together, I asked her if the boys
she had lived with had been her friends. Her face became serious and she
looked past me saying only that it was a bad time.  "What is different
about now?" I asked.  She looked at me and smiled, "Well, James now I have
you." I smiled back and could think of nothing more to say.

With Kate in the house routines had changed.
It was not long before Kate had moved into Wendy's room. It was not
something we discussed, it just happened. Our evening routines had changed.
Kate and Wendy would sit together in the living room talking. Dad was Kate
and Wendy had been spending more time together. We had stopped gathering in
I no longer felt comfortable walking into Wendy's room if the door was shut
without knocking first. And sometimes when I entered they would stop
talking as if whatever was being said did not include me.

One day in the late afternoon and during a wet snow, we heard the sound of
two people entering the house and shaking off the snow from their coats. We
had only expected Kate, who still left for the city on her own once in
while. We were all in the kitchen making dinner when Kate came in and said,
"Hey all, this is Jacob." Jacob seemed to be about the same age as Kate. He
had a few days growth of beard and looked pretty hungry. Kate said, "He has
been living on the street for a few days and needs a place to stay." Jacob
smiled shyly. Kate introduced us all and quickly put Jacob to work helping
Michael cut vegetables.

We made conversation and continued our chores as if this was nothing
unusual, though I was worried about what Dad would say when he got home,
but when he arrived just before dinner was ready, he betrayed no sense of
surprise at seeing a new face in the kitchen. After Kate made an
introduction, Dad shook his had firmly and said said "Welcome" almost as if
Jacob had been expected. He then said that Jacob could stay in Kate's old
room. By the next morning, Jacob was seated with us at the breakfast table
listening to directives from Dad for the day's tasks. Afterward we all
headed off together and remaining under the leadership of Kate.

Over the winter more permanent guests arrived. Most followed Kate home. A
few found our house on their own. Most where young like Kate, with a mix
of men and women. They quickly filled our house and then the boy's house.
One young man even went to live with Desmond. 

Initially, we continued to meet each morning in the kitchen. After
breakfast, the table was cleared and Dad would with his maps and diagrams
and with everyone gathered around. He would describe and assign the daily
tasks and often review how everything fit into his grand plan. He had the
perfect audience. The young people all listened and only asked questions to
clarify a task. 

Though as the total number of people living and working on the property
grew to almost twenty, the daily morning meetings with Dad soon became
unworkable. There were just too many people to fit into our kitchen and
with all the people the meetings themselves were taking too long as more
people asked questions. Somehow a decision was made to host meetings for
the entire group three times a week in the evening. The meetings were held
in our living room with people sitting on chairs, windowsills and the
floor. A meal was made early, so that everyone could eat during the
meeting.

At first dad continued to led the group with his morning meetings. He
seemed happy to see all the work getting done. His vision was coming
together. But as the meetings got larger and people voiced opinions he was
not sure how to respond. People had generally just thought he was crazy,
but these people thought he was sane, but just disagreed with his
positions.  At first dad argued with the kids but they argued back with
equal force and he seemed to not understand who these people where who had
entered his house. He had never learned the skills of leading people or
responding to an argument or negotiating. 

Each came for their own reason, and almost all had a tail of misfortune.
Either they had come to the city looking for work, or dropped out of
college, or run away from home. The exception was Thomas.

Dad always sat at the front of the group along with Kate and Thomas. Thomas
had arrived shortly after Jacob and had taken on a leadership role in the
group along with Kate. Dad would always start the meetings reviewing
accomplishments and then move on to the things that needed to get done.
Sometimes he would bring out his maps or a diagram as a means of
explanation. Though it often felt as if Dad was still talking just to us,
as if he had not made the transition to talking to a large group that did
not know him as we did and that needed more specific direction.  

Questions were always held to till after Dad finished, when Kate and Thomas
would take over the meeting, responding to concerns from the group and
assigning tasks for the next few days. In addition to the on going list of
property improvement tasks, the group required regular maintenance such as
making sure everyone got fed. Kate and Thomas had set up weekly teams to
make meals and scavenge for food to supplement what we gathered from the
garden.

Dad's fence around the entire property was finally built, mostly from the
fencing that had surrounded all three properties. With no fences between
our houses, the garden was expanding to cover much of the area between all
the houses. Work was done on the boy's house repairing windows, doors and
plumbing leaks. In addition to plumbing on both floors the boy's house had
hot water, though no one in our house seemed .  Under Kate and Thomas's
direction, the electricity was shut and disabled to all but refrigerator on
the first floor.

As winter began to release its grip on the garden grew well even under the
green house glass. Our numbers peaked at twenty one and it was agreed at a
meeting that we had reached our maximum capacity for the time being. We
turned away guests.

I enjoyed the pace of life. I had my role. Kate and Wendy spent more time
together. Michael shared his time between Dad and Thomas. I was on my own.
I no longer had to worry about tasks or what was happening next. There was
the large machine that worked forward. I could just slip in as one of the
cogs. Each day had a regularity. I would spend time with Desmond who had
given up trying to get me to play with the boys. They lived their separate
life going to school and coming home and it was as if they still did not
see us. The young men and women were kind to me. Jacob would tell me
stories about his family.

One day returning from repairing the roof of the shed, I was tired and
ready for dinner. As I entered the kitchen, Kate, Michael, Wendy and Jacob
were all waiting for me. They were quietly standing together behind the
small kitchen table. Kate was holding a small plate with what looked like a
Twinkie and in it a single burning candle. As I entered they began singing
happy birthday. They sang softly and carefully as if the words of the song
actually had meaning.

It was the first time in my life that I could remember that anyone had
celebrated my birthday. Wendy, Michael and I all knew the dates of our
birth, but we just never celebrated them. 

Kate offered me the plate with Twinkie and the burning candle and said,
"Make a wish." It was my first wish and I could not think of anything to
wish for, so I just blew out the candle. "I know it is not a traditional
cake," said Kate, "but I found it myself." she chuckled. I also found a few
more so that everyone could have their own.

As spring finally gave way to summer, Officer Peterson found himself
sitting at his desk and thinking about the house where he had found the
woman dead in her bed. The house had been littered with kids toys and kids
clothing and yet there were no kids in the house. The case was closed. The
woman had died of cancer. There was no question of suicide or foul play.
It was an uncomplicated death and the only guilty party was mother nature
or whatever deity people choose to rest their faith in. They had identified
the woman as Sandra Diego, but could not locate any next of kin. Had they
been unable to identify her body more effort might have gone into the case.
But her life ended neatly and in way that left no uncertainty. The body was
sent to the morgue and when it was not claimed after 60 days it was
cremated and the ashes swept into bin along with the ashes of all the other
unclaimed bodies.

Peterson did not need to think about this case as there was no case, and he
had real cases to think about. There were the three unsolved murders, four
investigations of theft and a serial arsonist who had not been caught. And
yet, his mind kept coming back to the house where he and his partner had
found Sandra. Her face had none of the pain he sometimes saw in other
bodies. She lay on her side in bed looking peaceful, an orderly transition
to where ever you went after death.  But something was not right. There
were children in the house. Just not present in the middle of the night
when she died. There was no suspicion of their involvement, so why had they
left and where had they gone? There was no evidence of another adult living
in the house. But who had taken care of her and who had called 911?

After years of investigations, Peterson was confident that he could walk
into a house and tell with reasonable accuracy the number of people living
in a house. He could even tell with reasonable accuracy their ages and
genders and this one had one mother deceased and two young boys. He
mentioned none of these thoughts to his partner. He did not want to burden
her. She was young and still learning the ropes. To survive she needed to
become adept at compartmentalizing what she found in the world or she would
be overwhelmed by the constant burden of human tragedy. She needed to go
home to her family at night.

He was older. His kids had grown and had their own lives. His own wife had
divorced him and moved away. He had time. He sometimes took on extra shifts
just to avoid going home. He could let the humanity that sat on the
periphery of every case seep into his subconsciousness and make a home
there, patiently waiting for a quiet moment to make its way back into the
forefront of his thoughts.

The home was listed as belonging to a man who lived in Barbados. The number
listed for the owner was disconnected. He had the same last name as the
woman who had died. The house would just sit abandoned, like so many houses
in the city. One more did not mater. 

On a quiet morning he stopped by an elementary school in the neighborhood
near the woman's home. The school reminded him of the one he went to as a
kid not far from here. He told the secretary that he was looking for two
brothers with the last name Diego and gave the woman's address. She looked
alarmed and said, "Oh, I hope there is nothing wrong." Peterson said, "No"
that he was just following up on an investigation regarding a relative.
"Oh" she said trying to fill in the missing information herself.  She then
said, "Well, I assume you mean Germaine and Dwayne, but let me check the
files to confirm their address." A moment later she said "Yes." as she held
the paper record for one of the boys and asked if he would like to talk
with them. He always surprised by how accommodating some people could be
when confronted with a uniform. "Uh, yes." he responded, not sure if he
really did want to see them and frustrated with himself for not having
thought this all through more carefully. He had confirmed his suspicion.
What more did he need?

The boys were called to the office and shown into a room where he was
waiting. They sat and looked understandably nervous. Their appearance did
not match what his imagination had, for no reason apparent to himself, come
up with as placeholders, but he could already recognize the features of the
mother in the older one. He asked them general questions about school what
sports they played. He thought about himself as a kid and his own kids. He
then asked them who they lived with.  The younger one just looked at the
older one who hesitated and then said they were living with their uncle
Desmond. He asked for their address and the Germaine responded with
Desmond's address. He finished the conversation by telling them to make
sure to keep up their grades in school.

As he left the room, the assistant principal was there to meet him. She
introduced herself and asked if anything she should be aware of regarding
the boys. Peterson asked if the boys had mentioned that their mother died.
The assistant principal said that she was not aware of anyone mentioning
this. "Well, they seem to be living with their uncle now." he said, "so
everything should be fine." The assistant principal looked at him, not sure
what to make of this information. He then handed her is card asked her to
call him if there were any concerns. As soon as he left, the assistant
principal made a call to the Department of Child Services.

Peterson got back into his vehicle and wondering if he had done the right
thing. He figured that his questions would likely set the wheels of the DCS
in motion. Maybe that was what he intended to happen. He was not sure. He
did know that the DCS, no matter how benevolently designed, could only be
programed to respond to a finite set of human relationships. The problem
was that there were an infinite number of possible human relationships and
if this one did not fit neatly one in the finite set, it would have to be
pressed until it did.

He drove to the address the boys had provided. As he came to the block
where Desmond lived, he noticed that it had changed since the night he was
there. There was now a fence that surrounded all three houses on the block
and inside the fence there was a buzz of human activity. Their mother's
house looked like it had been repaired and was being lived in. 

He found Desmond's house next to the boy's mother's house but on a
different street. As he walked through the gate, he could see young people
weeding a garden plot and others erecting large structure whose purpose he
could not discern. At the front door he rang the doorbell and waited.
Desmond opened the door and gave no indication that he was nervous to see a
police officer, saying "Can I help you?" Peterson asked if the two boys
were living with him. He said they were. He asked what happened to their
mother and Desmond said she had died of cancer. He said that he had
promised her that he would take care of them. Peterson asked if they were
happy. Desmond shrugged his shoulders and said, "As happy as two little
boys who have lost their mother can be." Peterson said, "Okay" He started
to leave and then turned back to Desmond, who was still standing at the
door, but could not think of what to tell him and then just turned and
left. 

A couple of days later Peterson got a call from DCS asking him questions
about the boy. The next call he made was to Desmond.

That night Kate and Thomas called a special meeting to talk about the fate
of the two brothers. The brothers were, as usual, absent from the meeting.
Desmond was there. Dad still sat at the front of the group, but this night
there was no pretense about him leading the agenda. Kate said that DCS
would be coming to Desmond's house on Friday afternoon and that she felt
there was a good chance they would want to take the boys with them.

There were lots of questions about the legality of what DCS could do and
what we could do. The question came down to should we actively try to
resist DCS taking the boys from Desmond. No one knew the law. The group was
divided. There were some who strongly felt that we should resist, that this
was just another attempt to dismantle. That we had created a strong enough
community that we could resist. That if we did not start now. We would
never be able to. What about Rachel who is only 17. Will we lose her as
well. I did not know the ages of some of group but some were young. Will
they take our property. A few felt that resisting was too much of a risk.
The discussion showed a divide among the group. Michael sided with the
folks who wanted to resist and voiced his opinion. I think Wendy was
inclined. I looked at Dad who seemed to be watching the whole discussion. 
There was a confidence building in the group about 

The meeting ended with no decision except that Kate and Thomas would be
present when the DCS arrived and do what they could to not let the boys go.

I spent much of the afternoon near Desmond's house. Around 5pm a man and a
woman emerged from a car and began heading for Desmond's gate. Kate and
Thomas came out of Desmond's house to meet them at the gate. I was not
close enough to hear what they were saying, but the four of them stayed at
the gate talking for a good fifteen minutes. Then suddenly there was the
sound of gunshots or firecrackers. We never found out which or where they
came from or who was responsible, though everyone suspected it came from
someone in the boy's house.

Both the man and the woman turned and ran to their car and drove off. Kate
and Thomas turned and ran to Desmond's porch. When it seemed clear that
there would be no more shots, everyone on the property came running to
Desmond's house and gathered with Kate and Thomas.

Twenty minutes later, we heard the sirens that would soon be making their
way to our small fort in the middle of the city. Kate said that anyone who
wanted to leave, should leave now. No one did.

As a first order of business, we secured the three gates with posts that
would make opening the gates impossible. Gaps in the fence were covered and
a large section of the iron fence that surrounded our house was covered in
a tarp that had been cut into sections and tied securely to the railings.

By the time we gathered again in our house, two police cars, a large police
van and an ambulance had shown up and were stationed outside the front
gate. The police did not approach the house, but stayed by their vehicles.

Quickly there was a scene of flashing lights and police cars and trucks
surrounding the entire block. On loud speakers, the police were ordering
everyone on the block to come out. They dressed in dark clothing and
carried large rifles and wore helmets. The entire block was surrounded in
flashing lights.

On a loud speaker, they demanded that we come out of the house. But no one
responded. They asked if they could speak to someone from the house, but
again no one responded.

We could see a couple of utility trucks stationed under lights. The were
cutting off our electricity, gas and water. As we watched this with Dad he
smiled and said they were too late. We had water in the storage tanks and
wood and stove to heat our food.

Inside everyone came to our house to meet. Dad sat with the group but said
nothing. The young people decided to break into three groups stationed at
each of the houses. They carried shovels and axes and poles as weapons.
Everyone moved but Dad who sat in his chair.

The scene went on. Michael went with the young people and was assigned to
the group at Desmond's house. Not know what else to do, Wendy and I
retreated to the second floor and watched from the room in the front of the
house. Late in the evening, we saw a truck with the call letters of a local
television station arrive. A newscaster got our and was broadcasting from
behind the barrier. 

The shined lights in our house and repeated their demands. A single police
officer walked forward with no weapons and asked to enter the house. He
said he just wanted to talk, but no one answered him. More attempts where
made. This went on late into the night. Though we were tired we could not
sleep.

Toward morning, the officers began to gather near the front of our house.
They use a ram moving quickly they entered the gate and moved up to the
front of the house. A shout went through the house to prepare to defend the
door. The officers quickly entered. The young people attacked with shovels
and were quickly subdued. We could hear commotion downstairs. Quickly it
quited as young people were escorted from the house. Lights came up the
stairs waving in all directions and then entered our room. We were told to
stay where we were. We were escorted out by two officers as the rest
searched the remainder of the house. 

We were placed in a car and did not see Dad or Michael until the next day.
In the end, Dad and Michael were not charged with any crime. Michael, Wendy
and I were sent to live with a foster family until we turned 18. Dad would
visit us on weekends.

************************************************************************8

Although winter was still a month or so away, we had begun to spend more of
our time ensuring that our house would remain warm as the cold set in. We
insulated exterior walls where possible and repaired windows and sills. We
hung heavy curtains across the windows in every room. A cast iron stove for
heating and cooking remained at the top of our scavenging list. 
As soon as the ground thawed, we began digging the garden. James and Darren
had moved into our house. We built a fence. 

Why did anyone who aspired to any sort of intellectual status feel guilty
about this box. They would deny watching it as if they honestly believed
this. The whole country had moved into a sense of denial as if it were an
epidemic. But had it always been this way? Did people always feel a
conflict between their actual lives and their perceived lives. Was modern
life just filled with more guilty pleasures. 

Even the dog ignores the television. The dogs life seems changed little
since his domestication. In the modern world his freedom is more restricted
but his interaction with the world remains the same.  He sleeps. He eats.
He sleeps without regard for modern light. Still finding his rythm of the
sun. Television sets have not effect on the dog. He rides in cars, but
without intention or car. It is not a great machine of conveyance, but
simply a place to be like any other. He is equally oblivious to his own
mortality yet still shares our instinct for survival. 


We would attend lectures at a local university. The professors rarely
minded the five extra students in their class more than confrontation.
While Dad sometimes just listened, more often than not he would start
asking questions and move the sleepy students into debate. Once sitting in
the back of the room. The professor was engaged in a lecture about
Taylorism. The students sat some slumped in their chairs doodling in their
notebooks, some taking notes, some staring past the professor their mind
working through some unrelated problem. Without waiting for a pause in the
professors lecture, Dad asked "What are the benefits of efficiency?" The
professor stopped unused to interruption. He looked at Dad and seemed about
to ask his name, but at that point Dad rose from his seat, the professor,
responded, "Well they should be self evident."  "How efficient is this?" he
pointed around the room at the students "The seem hardly the most effective
way to deliver information." "Look here" he took a notebook from one of the
students "It appears your lecture has inspired a rather naughty picture. If
that was the intention..well" 

We entered a corporate feeding station. Where people wore name tags. He
hated name tags. We walked right into the kitchen. No one cared because
they did had no personal interest. They were just placed there and told to
do their job. The cook staff spoke spanish and Dad immediately began
talking to them. We ate soup and bread. It was late and Dad said they all
wanted to go home from a long day so he instructed us to help clean so
everyone could go home early.

And so we found ourselves at the zoo. He had never really talked about
zoos, but had used "zoo" or "animals in a cage" as a way of describing.  As
we methodically made our way through each exhibit, Dad would point the
different animals which he knew by species and type without reading the
public descriptions. He would describe the creatures native habitat
including floral, climate and geographic location.  He would tell us the
range of area commanded by each creature in its daily life and migration.
All in stark contrast to their present predicament. 

When we came to the primate exhibit, Michael made faces at the creatures
and Wendy and I laughed. As Dad was describing the life and habitat of
the gorilla to us he suddenly stopped. The gorilla was looking directly at
Dad and Dad was looking back at him and not speaking. The gorilla picked up
her baby and ran to one side of her pen and then the other, sat ate
something from the ground and looked back at Dad. She then left her
daughter and climbed up on a perch made of some sort of scaffolding
probably left over from construction. She looked back at Dad who just
stared. We did not know what Dad saw or why he stopped talking but we knew
enough not to ask. If Dad wanted to tell us something, he would tell us.

For the remainer of our visit Dad sent us on our way to explore while he
wandered silently around the zoo. We stayed for hours till the zoo closed
and were very late to leave watching the keepers close the gates and for
the night. He seemed particularly interested in the rituals of the closing
of the zoo.

That evening at home he began drawing a map of the zoo from memory on a
large sheet of paper that he had taken from. Each of the pens, stables and
houses were carefully drawn to scale. All of the paths and labeled. As I
watched him draw, I knew there was a reason behind his work.

During dinner we talked about the zoo and the animals. Wendy told a story
about a man who had dropped his camera into the crocodile pit. (look up zoo
stories) Dad just listened and smiled.

After dinner he brought us round the map to describe his plan. We were
going to free the gorilla and as many animals as we could reach. He gave no
reason for this adventure. Micheal and Wendy were immediately drawn to the
plan and did not seem to care for an explanation. I knew enough not to ask.

We would enter the zoo in the afternoon about one hour before closing. One
at a time we would enter the snack hut which was closed an hour before the
zoo closed and. The plan was to remain in sight of the snack hut and enter
in ones and twos when no one was looking. It was a weekday so the zoo would
not be that busy. Dad had noted that the back door to the hut remained
opened. 

Once inside we were to commander a large backhoe that was near a
construction area. Dad said these were easy to start and they often left
the keys in the ignition. The plan was to run a cable from the tractor to
the bars of the cage. The cable would be used to pull down the bars of the
cage. Once we had freed the gorillas we would move on to the other pens.
Dad had marked this all on his map. Indicating where we would be at any
point in time. He had made estimates for how long each would take.


No sooner does the screen pop into her hand than some nacent idea journey
forth, still wet from birth, with a no more instinct than that necessary
for blinking and breathing, comes forth screaming and shouting and dying. 

We stood watching a girls soccer game. We had been on our way to the store
and I am not sure why we stopped.  It was just one of those moments were we
all seemed to have the same thought at once. The girls on our side of the
field were from the local high school. We didn't say anything. Dad seemed
to be studing the game very carefully. The local team appeared to be
losing. 

Dad then turned to us and said, the problem is that they are not using
their hands. You see, each team is trying to move the ball into the other
team's goals, but if they just used their hands it would be so much easier.
Suddenly the game appeared as silly as a sack race with girls awkwardly
trying to 

Just as the ball came close to where we were standing, Dad ran onto the
field grabbed the ball with his hands and then started running toward the
opposing team's goal. Both referres were blowing their whistles and moving
toward him. The girls just stopped playing and stood staring at Dad as he
ran past them making his way to the goal.  As he flung the ball in the
goal, Michael and Wendy let out huge cheers and I joined in with them.  

Every little trival thought that enters one's head is immediately sent out
into the universe, ideas barely formed. The cost of transmission too easy.
The barrier too low. No need or time to sit with a thought and work it out.
No time to think at all. The cost of transmission so small that the merest
thought could be flung into the universe. Television as insidious as it
was, was at least created with some effort. Some work went into creating
the scripts. Some thought went into working with the actors, albeit for the
masses. But we had traded one medium curated for the masses with another
currated by the masses with no great improvement. No need for sustained
thought. No time for ideas to be born and die before reaching maturity. No
time for maturity at all. Sustained thinking was no longer necessary or
even possible. 

I don't recall any close friends from school. I do recall that most of them
had mothers and fathers and some talked about aunts and uncles and
grandparents. These were not familiar to me. 

Every part of a mechanical device is designed to work in coordination. The
spindle drives the rod which turns the disk which moves the piston. Each
process of revolving, sliding, swinging, lifting, catching each produce
their own vibrations.  Each motion transfers its motion to the next. Each
motion produces an even rhythm. The rhythm is intentional. There is a
difference between a machine that goes clack, clack, clack Every time two
mechanical parts meet there is vibration. But man can't design a perfect
machine so he designs 

The teeth against teeth or rollers against slide were either right or
wrong. Each one sounds clear and intentional. 
