SUPERHERO

"Could you at least put a towel on?" "I have a towel on." "I am not talking
about your head." "Don't be such a prude. Man's body is beautiful. At least
mine is." 

Adam Persopolis lay on his stomach on a plush pile rug. And it was true,
his body was beautiful. Resting on his forearms he read the Saturday
morning paper. Clay stood behind him trying to decide if he should just
leave. It was a thought that periodically ran through his head and involved
a not so elaborate scenario about where he would go, but he never left. 

Clay turned to the counter to make coffee. Standing by the sink, the
morning sun warmed him as it reached across the horizon and through the
kitchen window.

"Cynthia Champion has agreed to star in Sydney Howard's latest production."
Adam said as he continued reading the paper. "I hope it is better than his
last one." Clay said through the steam rising off his cup of coffee. "With
Cynthia Champion it can't be all bad." Adam replied. Clay stared at the
outline of the kitchen window painted diagonally across Adam's body.

"Are you going to lie there all day?" Clay asked. "I can't read the paper?"
Clay eyed a bottle of vodka that had been left on the cabinet from last
night and then the clock counting the hours and minutes till noon. "We
should get out." "How about we go to the Tavern for lunch?" "Fine." "You
heard that Lawson Properties is planning on buying that block." "Yeah, I
know."

Adam and Clay had known each other since college and had lived together
since they were in their twenties. Their home was a small and nondescript
brick building in an underused section of the city set among other small
and nondescript brick buildings. The original purpose of their building was
unclear but over the past century it had housed a variety of small industry
that had come into and gone out of fashion, the last one being typewriter
sales and repair.

They lived primarily on the second of the two floors. It was mostly open
space with their bedrooms off to one side. The open space included a
kitchen, dining and living area delineated only by the appropriate
furniture within each space. Skylights kept the space bright throughout the
day. It was Clay who had directed the renovation of the space from a warren
of small offices. It was also Clay who directed the finding and
refurbishing of the furniture and cabinetry.

A little after noon, Adam and Clay sat across a marbled Formica table in a
tall backed and dimly lit booth.  Stephanie, a woman who looked to be well
into her seventies approached to take their order. A small paper hat sat
neatly on a wavy pile of well coiffed white hair. She wore a light pink
uniform bordered with starched white collar and cuffs and a pleated white
apron tied about her waist. It was the same uniform she had worn for many
years and she still filled it well. But as she stood at their table she
stooped slightly, as if to suggest a change in trajectory.

She had worked at the tavern since Adam and Clay were in their teens and
probably long before. Recognizing them she gave them a hearty "Hi fellas"
adding that she had not seen them for a couple of weeks. She took their
orders with the same professional competence that she had always shown, but
the rhythm of her performance was slightly stilted giving a sense that she
had begun relying more on patterns of habit than inspiration to get through
the day.

Adam noticed her counterpart, a boy still in college and doing his homework
at the bar between waiting on tables. Behind the bar was Francis, who had
owned the tavern for the past fifteen years and had worked there for ten
years before that. Seeing Adam, he came out from behind the bar where he
still worked serving drinks seven days a week.  As he approached he wiped
his hands on an apron that looked dirty enough to make the act a zero sum
affair. In his late fifties, he combed his thin hair over a bald pate.  He
sat down heavily in the booth next to Clay and when asked how things were
going gave his usual answer sighing "Well, I seem to be breaking even." But
there was nothing in his manner or the tavern to suggest that he aspired to
anything more. 

"I have heard a rumor that Lawson Properties is buying the building." Adam
said. "Yeah, I heard that as well. I got nothing against them. Doesn't
matter too much to me who I pay the rent check to." "But what if they ask
for more rent?" asked Clay. "How can they?" responded Francis. "There is no
way I can afford to pay any more than I do. Like trying to get blood from a
stone." He laughed.  Francis found comfort in his logic and Adam and Clay
did not have the heart to challenge him.

Francis returned to the bar. Adam stared off quietly into the tavern
holding a martini poised above the table in his heavy almost muscular
hands. Hands that looked like they had been forged from years of labor. The
sort of hands that Clay's own father had come by honestly, but here they
were on Adam who spent his days typing stories for a local magazine. Clay
admired them, clean and manicured and tucked gently into starched white
cuffs wrapped in fine tweed sleeves. Clay's own hands were long and thin
like his mother's.

Leaving the tavern they walked to the end of the block and stood on the
corner caught in a moment of mutual and unspoken indecision about what to
do with the rest of the day. Clay with a magazine he had purchased tucked
under his arm noticed a young mother hustling her reluctant son along the
street and wondered about the nature of their urgency. Adam watched a lone
seagull flying overhead, blown in from the shore. Its cry out of place over
the rumble of buses and honking horns. When too much time had passed, they
agreed to head home.

As they made their way out of the square and down Wilson Ave., they passed
the laundromats and liquors stores that served as the last remaining
junctions of communal life. Reaching the corner of large a construction
site, they stopped waiting to pass a line of striking workers that had
narrowed the sidewalk ahead. Next to them a worker leaned against the wall,
an unlit cigarette hung from his mouth.  He patted his pockets in search of
a light.  "Hey buddy" he addressed Adam, "got a match?" "Sure." Adam
responded as he fetched a silver lighter from his breast pocket and leaned
over to light the man's cigarette.

"What's up?" Adam nodded toward the men marching. "Last week one of the
guys got burned on the job and now Mayfair Construction is refusing to pay
his hospital bills." he said between puffs of smoke. "The only reason he
got burned was because a worn out gas line caught fire on the welder which
he told them needed to be replaced. Mayflower's been cutting corners since
we started this project. It was only a matter of time before someone got
seriously hurt."

Clay noticed two banners on the fence surrounding the construction site.
One was for Mayfair Construction and the other in equally large letters
advertised Lawson Properties. "What do you know about Lawson Properties?"
Clay asked the worker. "Not much except that I hear they got big plans for
Westside. We're hoping to start there after this job ends."

"Whose up there now?" Adam looked up at the building. "Scabs" he pointed
with his cigarette.  "and I can tell you they have no idea what they are
doing." Both Adam and Clay turned their attention to the scabs who crawled
about on the tall skeleton of iron girders. 

Just before they reached the end of the block they heard a cry from above.
They looked up to see a section of scaffolding falling from the fifth floor
of the building like an insect, its spindly legs reached in vain for
purchase until it came crashing into the pavement below. Where the
scaffolding had been they could see a worker dangling by a rope from the
fifth floor of the building. 

Instantly, Adam was gone from Clay's side and there appeared leaping from
one floor to the next on the outside of the building, a man in a costume of
tan and black that fit tightly against his body. Reaching the third floor
he pulled the dangling worker up to safety. A crowd of scabs rushed to
greet him. Down below from where Clay stood, the striking workers pointed
toward the man in costume and said "Look its Superman!"

This was the name he had been given by the public and a direct reference to
the comic book hero with whom he shared some super human abilities. But
Adam was not born on a distant planet nor cast toward Earth moments before
its destruction. He was of the Earth and while there are many stories told
of his origin there is only one true story.

He was born the only son of Sarah and Mitchel Clydesdale in the rural
mining town of Havilah. Mitchel spent his days in the mines and his nights
in the local tavern where he drank till the pain that lived inside of him
could raise no more than a grumble. Sometimes he went home too early, short
of money, and raised holy hell with Sarah who could match him drink for
drink and blow for blow. 

On Sundays, Mitchel went out into the woods to hunt for deer, but shot just
about anything that had the misfortune to cross his path. Hunting was one
of the few things he did well, drunk or sober. One Sunday, a jaguar sat
hidden in rocky outcrop. The jaguar knew not to be out during daylight
hours, but his family was hungry and man left little in the land they
shared. As the jaguar waited, a deer came into view only 50 yards below. As
he inched forward into the open to prepare his attack, he suddenly saw a
hunter out of the corner of his eye. It was the sort of carelessness that
he typically attributed to man. Mitchel had seen the same deer and now he
saw the jaguar. He turned and shot. Leaping forward the jaguar caught the
bullet in his hind quarters. Mitchel cursed himself for the bad shot. 

The jaguar silently made his way home through the woods that he knew he
would never see again. He remained swift and agile but started to feel the
cold of losing blood. He arrived to find his mate and children sleeping
quietly deep in the brush. He gently woke his mate wanting to see her one
last time. Laying next to her and immersed in the soothing rumble of her
purr, he apologized for dying too soon.

The next evening she got up. Her cubs expecting a lesson in hunting were
told they would need to wait alone this evening. She arrived in town in the
quiet of the early morning as men and women lay sleeping under the security
of nothing more than a sheet or blanket. 

Inside the hunter's cabin a light still burned. The door left half open the
jaguar entered to find the hunter asleep in his chair, the woman lying
uncovered across her bed and the baby quietly whimpering in his crib.  The
smell of the hunter was strong, but stronger was the smell of alcohol and
soiled clothes. 

Resting her paws on the arm of his chair she leaned in close and breathed
her moist hot breath into the hunter's face. Opening his eyes, she bared
her teeth and roared. Screaming he threw his hands forward and pushed
helplessly against her heavily muscled shoulders. She gripped his neck in
her jaw and then crushed his spine. He died instantly the expression of
shock still frozen on his face.

She roared again and the woman stirred. Seeing the jaguar still leaning
over her dead husband she screamed and flung herself toward the crib.
Unable to stand she hung on the bars and sobbed, "Don't take my baby." As
the jaguar came close to her, she was overwhelmed by the stench of alcohol
that leached from the woman's skin.

The jaguar leaned her paws against the crib and found the boy crying
bruised and sore and lying in his own filth. Disgusted, she leaned her head
over the rails and lifted the boy up by the scruff of his neck. As the boy
felt the jaguar's sharp teeth gently close about his neck, he stopped
crying and made no attempt to resist. Carrying the boy from the house the
jaguar made her way back to her cubs.

For two years, she raised the boy along with her cubs teaching them to hunt
and survive in the wild and when she had taught them all that she could,
she sent her cubs out on their own. She then led the boy back to town.
Arriving again in the early hours of the morning she left the boy in the
middle of the town square where he sat and amused himself until he was
found the next morning.

The boy was adopted by a childless couple, Nicholas and Svetlana Persopolis
who named him Adam. It was soon apparent that Adam had special powers.  By
an early age he could outrun the squirrels that came into their yard and
could leap into trees more than twice his height.  Worried, his parents
begged him to never reveal his secrets. The world had taken much from
Nicholas and he was determined it would not take his boy. 

The mining company, for which Nicholas worked, owned the house in which he
lived and the store in which he bought his food, and at the end of each
month after he paid for his house and his food, it left little on his side
of the ledger except for life itself, for which he was still grateful and
which the company would allow him to keep as long it remained useful.

And when it came time the company took his life as well. Nicholas died
slowly drowning under the soot and ash that filled his lungs and for all of
Adam's powers there was nothing in the world he could do to save him. 

Adam grew tall and handsome and was the fastest boy the town had ever seen.
He broke high school records in both short and long distances as well as in
field events such as long jump and javelin, and for a few years he shined
like hope in the small and smokey town. He ran just fast enough to bring
home the state championship and he ran just fast enough to get a
scholarship to the state college. During the summer before he left, his
mother got sick and died relieving him of the one remaining hold the mining
town had on him, and after he left he never returned.

Clay watched as Adam leaped down from the building and quickly away into an
alley or backyard. It was up to Clay to fetch his clothes and then find a
place where Adam could change before heading home. No matter where Clay
went, Adam would find him.

They met during their freshman year of college. One night after a party
Clay was walking home across a bridge that connected the two campuses,
alone and drunk. He does not remember walking into the street, but he does
remember Adam coming from out of nowhere and grabbing and lifting him out
of the way of the truck and then with super human speed carrying him over
and off the bridge. 

He also remembers walking up in Adam's dorm room and seeing Adam standing
over him looking down. "Where am I?" he asked cautiously his head feeling
disproportionately larger than the rest of his body, a feeling that was not
unfamiliar. "You're safe." Adam smiled. "What happened?" "I saved your
life." "Sorry." Clay said shading the light from his eyes and then groaning
"Why?" "Why?" Adam laughed "Well it seemed worth saving." "Okay but just
this once" Clay said turning his head. "Let's not make a habit of it."
Clay, embarrassed tried to get up to leave, but Adam made him stay. That
morning they ate breakfast together in the school dinning hall.

Clay sat across from Adam feeling self conscious. His clothes rumpled and
stained and smelling of beer, feeling like something the cat dragged in, as
his mom sometimes described his father after a long night under the city
streets.  Looking down, he pushed his food around on his plate waiting for
his appetite to return. He glanced up, half expecting Adam to be gone, a
figment of his overactive imagination, but there he sat seeming to be in no
rush to be anywhere else.

"What do you want?" Adam asked leaning forward. "What do you mean?" Clay
responded cautiously. "I mean what do you want to do...in life." "What do I
want to be?" Clay shrugged. "Well, my father wants me to be an engineering
and...I uh" He stared past Adam at a couple of boys laughing with a girl
near the entrance, "I have not given it thought much beyond that." Adam
shook his head." "No. I mean why were you put here?"  "Why was I put here?"
Clay laughed. "My guess is that whoever put me here did not give it much
thought...or, if he did, he forgot to tell me." "Everyone is here for a
reason." Adam said looking into Clay's eyes. "Everyone? That's a lot of
reasons. I am not sure that many reasons even exist." 

"I am here to save people." Adam said. "Have you saved many people?" Clay
asked. "Only one...so far." He cocked his head and smiled. "So last night"
Clay fidgeted with a button on his shirt. "What exactly did happen." he
asked as the events of the evening formed in the haze of intoxication sat
loosely jumbled in memory and risked slowly resolving to errant permanence.
Adam described how Clay had strayed into the path of a truck and how he had
used his super human speed and strength to save him.  He told Clay of
finding out at an early age that he was faster and stronger than other
children and then finding out that he was faster and stronger than anyone.
He confessed he knew of no explanation.  

As Adam spoke, Clay felt he was no longer implicated in the thoughts of
those around him, his classmates, most of whom he barely knew, but many of
whom he recognized and had already attributed distinctions of social order
and continued to bustle about the cafeteria.

"So you are a superhero." Clay smiled. "It is why I am here." Adam returned
the smile. For a moment neither of them spoke. "Does anyone else know?"
Adam shook his head. "Why me?" "I guess it is just why you are here." "Nice
to know I have a place in the world." Adam nodded in agreement.

Clay was the only one of three brothers to attend college. His father had
worked as a plumber for the department of public works making sure that
every day fresh water flowed into the city and every day waste water flowed
out. But he wanted more for Clay. Clay, unlike his brothers, liked school
and brought home report cards that included As and kind words from his
teachers. His father wanted Clay to be an engineer, to design and build the
sort of machinery he had spent his days repairing.

Adam stood on a chair in his dorm room wearing woman's tights made of thick
black wool and an undersized white cotton t-shirt. He struck a menacing
pose as if he were about to slay an evil foe. "You still look like you are
wearing women's underwear...or jumped out of bed and forgot to put on your
pants." "Yes. But am I beautiful?" Adam turned to face Clay his muscles
thick behind the shirt and tights. "Maybe we should call you beautiful-man"
Clay smirked. 

"Honestly, do you even need a costume." Clay looked up from the dozen or so
comic books that lay on Adam's desk highlighting Superman, Batman, Captain
America, and The Flash. "These aren't real superheros.  They're comic book
heroes." Clay exclaimed. "I think you just want an excuse to wear tights."
He said to Adam still standing his perch. "...and you can't just look like
someone who walked out of the lingerie department." 

"Make me a costume." Adam's words thrust forward with a power that seemed
to transcend the abstract. "Don't you feel naked?" Clay asked. "Yes!"
"Well, it is still going to need to be warm." "And it will need
protection." Adam added. "Armor for my chest and other areas." Clay
doubtful just shook his head. "You're and engineer." Adam encouraged. "I am
a freshmen in college." "This is something you can do." Adam, still
standing on his chair, raised his arms dramatically, as if to the heavens
above. "I am your muse."

Initially, finding people to save proved difficult. There was, of course,
no lack of people facing various sorts of mortal danger, but most of it was
known and long-term, not the sort of danger that lent itself to a superhero
rescue. For Adam, the danger needed to be acute and sudden. 

For a while Clay volunteered as a dispatcher for the college crisis hotline
center. After directing an emergency rescue team to a crisis scene, he
would try to reach Adam through the one payphone on their dorm floor.
Though often the rescue team would have arrived well before Adam could get
there and they were generally far better equipped to deal with the sorts of
emergencies triaged through a college crisis hotline. Frustrated, Adam
spent more than a few evenings hidden and watching the paramedics or fire
crew adeptly manage the situation.

Then one evening, due to some confusion regarding the actual location of
the caller, Adam found himself first on the scene. A woman lay unconscious
on the floor of her dorm room, her roommate beside her sobbing. Adam
quickly picked up the unconscious woman and raced her to the hospital
leaving her in the hands of the emergency room doctors.

The story was reported but received the dubious headline "Mystery Man
Rescues Drunk Teenage Girl" and read about as credible as a UFO siting. It
did not help Adam's sense of accomplishment that the article also suggested
that the young woman would have likely been better served by a team of
qualified paramedics.

The next evening, Adam leaned back in his chair with his feet up on the
desk in the dorm room they now shared, staring out the window. "There is no
way you could have known that she was just drunk." And when Adam did not
respond, Clay added "It is not like people who call crisis hotlines
actually know what is going on themselves." He paused and then added "Your
the one who wanted to be a superhero anyway." "I am a superhero!" insisted
Adam still not looking at Clay. "It is why I am here." "Well it is not my
fault." Clay responded.  Adam just shook his head quietly.

"Let's get out of here." Adam let his chair land back on the front legs and
quickly grabbed his coat. "I am sure there is a party somewhere just
waiting for us."

Over the next month, Clay found and then modified an existing radio so that
it could scan and receive local police and fire broadcast channels. They
spent evenings together listening to the radio for reports of people in
distress. The effort paid off with a few rescues mostly involved carrying
people out of burning buildings, though once from a car before it exploded.
Adam was fast and strong and could leap through flames without getting
burnt. This was partially due to his speed and partially due to a fire
retardant material that Clay carefully manufactured for his costume.

Adam began to receive some notoriety for his exploits and was dubbed
Superman by the local press. Though not all the press he received was
positive. Some fire officials complained that he often interfered with
their own rescue attempts. 

One afternoon late in their junior year as they both sat in their dorm
missing class and nursing hangovers, a report of a robbery at Porter Street
Bank came over the scanner. Quickly Adam suited up and was out the door.
When he arrived at the scene, the police were already in a standoff with
the robber. A few customers and tellers were still inside the bank.

Adam approached a police captain whom he had met at a previous accident
scene and asked if there was anything he could do. "Well, if it ain't our
local superhero." the captain smiled, his jaw muscles visibly exercising a
wad of gum. "You really faster than a speeding bullet, because this ain't
no fire.  The man inside that bank." He turned his narrow gaze toward the
entrance. "He has a gun." He looked back at Adam giving him time to think
and then added.  "I appreciate your offer, but maybe you best leave this
one to us." The captain turned to walk back to his officers.

Adam hesitated and then followed the captain. Placing his hand on his
shoulder, the captain turned. "Just keep him occupied." Adam said and was
gone. Seconds later, Adam was loping across the intersection toward the
side of the bank. He moved on all fours, quickly and silently. He moved so
gracefully that no one in the crowd noticed him unless they saw a dog or
cat run across the street.

Suddenly Adam appeared at the corner of the bank, just out of view of the
bank robber who now stood at the entrance to the bank holding a hostage and
a gun and shouting demands to the police officers. A second later Adam
leapt across the front of the bank and before the robber could react, Adam
had taken the gun from his hand. He tossed the gun toward the police. He
then turned and caught the man as he tried to run back into the bank. 

Pinning him against the floor, the man looked up at Adam their faces only
inches apart. His breathing heavy. His hair a tangled mix of grey.  His
eyes pooled and spilling over.  His cheeks deeply etched with lines from
countless expressions. His arms frail and resigned under the layers of coat
and jacket and sweater and shirt. All of the anger Adam had seen in his
face moments before was gone leaving only fear. 

The police rushed in and Adam released the robber to their custody. 

The next morning, Adam lay on his bed in their dorm room reading the paper.
This time his story had made the front page with the title "Superhero
Thwarts Bank Robbery". There was even the quote from the police captain
thanking him for his courageous work. There was a picture which showed Adam
standing between the bank manager and the police captain. The bank manager
smiling and shaking Adam's hand. Adam tried to remember the picture being
taken, but could only recall flashbulbs and people pulling him this way and
that.

The story went on to describe the robber as vagrant. He had been in trouble
with the law before and over many years for various minor crimes. A
representative for the city was quoted as saying it was good that he was
finally off the street.

"Who did I save?" Adam asked. "What do you mean?" "I mean who did I save?"
Adam put the paper down and rolled on his side resting his head on his arm.
"You saved the people in the bank." "They were in no danger." "You don't
know that." "They were in no danger." Adam shook his head wearily. "You
stopped a bank robbery." Clay suggested. "I know." Adam responded. "People
can't just go around robbing banks." Clay added. "I am not saying people
should rob banks, but I put on this costume to save people...to do
something good in this world." "Well you might have saved the manager his
job." Clay said half seriously. "Right" Adam nodded "no one would have
blamed him." He turned back to the paper. "It says here he is 36 and lives
in Brookside with his family." "What is wrong with that?" asked Clay. "What
does it say about the robber?" Adam responded "They don't even mention his
age or address." Adam turned back to the picture in the paper. "He is just
vagrant." 

Adam sat up in his cot, leaning against the wall. "I saved the bank. I
saved the bankers some of their money." "Banks are not necessarily bad."
said Clay. "They are not necessarily good either. The mayor wants me to
accept an honor." "I saw that." "The bank wants to offer me a reward."
"Yeah, I saw that too."

Clay and Adam continued getting better at finding people in distress,
though sometimes it was just a matter of being in the right place at the
right time. Along with fires, there were other sorts of accidents,
including a collapsed building and a boy lost in the mountains. He even
once save a kitten stranded in the upper branches of a tree.

But Adam never felt satisfied. It is not that he didn't enjoy rescuing
people, but he never felt he was doing much more than could be accomplished
by well-trained police or firefighters. If he really was a superhero, where
were the super villains, like the kind he read about in comic books, the
ones who ransomed whole cities for greed, wealth and power?

"Here" Clay handed Adam his shirt and pants. Adam quietly dressed. "What's
wrong?" Clay asked. "Nothing." said Adam shaking his head and then. "It is
crazy. Here I am saving a guy that is only in danger because of Mayfair."
That is according on one guy. They are on strike and.." What could you do,
let him fall. No, but once again, I am just saving Mayfair from their own
mess. It is the same with everyone. They are in trouble because of the
system.

The next day Adam headed down to City Hall to learn more about Lawson
Properties. He was curious about their plans for Westside and thought if
the project was big enough it might make for an good article. Looking at
the records for sales in Westside over the past year and found that Lawson
had purchased more than a few properties. This alone was not remarkable,
but he also noticed that the sale prices seemed low even for Westside and
that many of the sales listed Porter National Bank as the seller.

Adam had a friend who worked in the planning department, so he decided to
stop by and see if she could provide him with some more information. "Adam.
To what do I owe the pleasure?" "Hi, Alison. I need some information." "Of
course...of course you do." Alison replied from her seat in the cubicle
that was her office and held Adam with a smile that 

when he saw Adam standing by his cubicle.  "Just stopping by to say hi?"
Craig smiled, "I am looking for some information about Lawson Properties."
"The developer" Craig mused, "I only know that they own a lot of the city."
"What about in Westside?" "Westside? Westside seems kinda low-rent for
them. What is this about?" "A lot of their recent sales there appear to be
foreclosures and I have heard a rumor that they have big plans for that
side of city." "Well, I have not heard anything about that." Craig pause
and then smiled. "How important is this to you?" Adam rolled his eyes to
indicate that he wanted the information but did not want to beg for it.

"Alright" Craig laughed getting up from his chair. "Come on, if anyone is
going to know what is going on upstairs" he motioned with his head implying
the mayor's office. "It will be Peter." Adam followed him to a small corner
office.

"Westside?" Peter said brushing ash that had fallen from his cigar and onto
his ample chest "Yeah, Lawson is trying to buy the whole thing." "All of
Westside?" asked Adam. "Yup, all 46 acres, at least that is what I hear."
"Why?" asked Craig. "Why do developers buy anything?" "But Westside is a
slum." "Westside is only a slum if it exists.  Erase Westside and you erase
the slum. He can rebrand it how ever he wants." He paused to look out at
the city from a small cloudy window behind his cramped desk.  "And anyway"
he turned back to Adam.  "Westside is not a slum. I grew up there."

"But buying an entire section of a city no matter how...low-rent, would
cost a fortune." "Not if you are clever...and greedy." Peter grinned as he
leaned back in his chair. "How do you mean?"  "The city starts to condemn
properties because of fire codes or whatever." he waved his hand depositing
cigar ash loosely behind him. "Once that happens the city is automatically
entitled to collect the rent from the property. The owner can't afford to
keep the building, so he sells for whatever he can get." He paused leaning
forward and resting his arms on his desk. "That is if he is lucky. A lot of
properties get foreclosed."

"Is this legal?" asked Adam. "Legal?" he Peter laughed. "It is not only
legal is it mandated under the Federal Housing Act of 1954. Raze the old
neighborhoods and replace them with the modern world. You gotta wonder who
sponsored that bill." he said shaking his head.

"But why would the city agree to condemn buildings on behalf of Lawson."
"The housing act provides financial incentives for this kind of work and
besides who knows what other sorts of incentives are involved." Peter
looked up and shook his head. "All, I can say is I didn't vote for him."

Adam walked Craig back to his cubicle and said goodbye. Said nothing and
shook his head. What do you want. How is Clay doing? He is fine. You mean I
haven't driven him crazy? I don't want anything. What do you want?
I'll call you. He shifts his head. I promise.
He allowed a kiss on the cheek.
"I think you owe me
at least a beer." Craig smiled. "I'll call. I promise."

That night Clay arrived home late from work to find Adam laying in "You're
late." "Yes. I had to finish deadline." "You're drunk." "Not quite. Get me
a martini." "Get it yourself." "Aren't you supposed to take care of me.
Isn't that what sidekicks are for, my robin my jimmy, ...to fetch me my
drinks?"  "Fix me a drink." with an imperial wave of his hand.  "Go fuck
yourself." "Believe me I have tried." "Why do you always say that.  Its not
funny." "Why do you always tell me to go fuck myself." Silence.

"They are trying to erase an entire section of town." Adam said from the
couch where he lay. "What?" "I said they are trying to erase the entire
section of town." "Who?" "The city the contractors, Lawson, whoever can
make any money." "Well, it's a slum." "It's a slum where people live.  It's
their home.  Besides how do you know it is a slum?" "I don't know." Clay
shrugged, "but that's what everyone says." "What are you going to do
about." "We...we are going to save Westside."

"Lets go." Adam sat up. "Where?" "Westside." "Tonight?" "Sure." "Seems like
a long way to go just to get drunk." Clay remained fixed in his chair.
"Besides it is not safe." "Don't worry, I'll protect you." Adam laughed
pulling Clay up to his feet.

Westside was across the river and a short walk from where the train left
them off in mid-town. It was bordered by Claremont Ave., a busy street that
cut across the city. Crossing the street, a woman appeared to shout at them
from a second story window, but they could not hear what she said over the
noise of traffic. Turning into the neighborhood they passed an alley. In
the dark kids were shouting. A baseball came flying toward them, headed
well over their heads. Adam jumped quickly and far too high. As he caught
the ball, the kids in the alley all stopped for a moment watching Adam as
he seemed to float in the air. When he landed they all whopped and hollered
with glee, still young enough to welcome miracles into their world.

They passed markets and barbershops and newsstands and theaters all very
much alive among a few buildings that had already been razed or boarded up.
They entered a tavern under a small unlit sign and took seats at the bar.
Adam got the attention of the bartender and ordered two martinis.
"Martinis?" said an older man sitting next to Adam to no one but the bar
itself.  "I think you boys are on the wrong side of town." his words slowly
stumbling over each other on their way to the end of his sentence.  "Oh,
hold on" he held up one hand to stop himself.  "If you kids just sit and
wait here" he paused to steady his thoughts. "in a short while you and your
little friend can order as many martinis as you like." He then toasted
himself and took another sip of whatever liquor the bartender had found to
fill his glass that evening.

A younger man sitting next to him leaned forward and grinned, "Don't mind
my friend here, he has had a few too many and is...uh, a bit suspicious of
people in fancy suits. He wonders what they did to get those fancy suits."

Adam smiled, "My name is Adam. I write for a living and my friend Clay is
an engineer." "Nice to meet you Adam and Clay. My name's Pete.  I'm in
construction...I'm a construction worker." he laughed. 

The older man sitting between them picked up his drink and moved to a
table.

"Do you know anything about Lawson Properties?" "Lawson, sure, I work for
them.  Well I work for Mayfair which works for Lawson." "Has anyone
mentioned their plans for Eastside?" "Their plans for Eastside?" He shook
his head. "Lawson builds condominiums, luxury condominiums, at least that
is what they put on the signs. I guess you can call anything luxury." He
added more to himself, "I am working on one of their skyscrapers in midtown
right now." He pointed in the general direction of midtown.  "Lawson sure
as hell ain't going to put one of those in Eastside."

"Well, the rumor is that he wants to buy Eastside, all of it." "Ha, and
what of it?" Pete signaled the bar tender to fill his glass. "What of it?
You and all your friends here will no longer have a place to live.
Everything you see will be gone." "That is true no matter what Lawson
does." Peter said quietly looking at the dimly lit shelf of bottles behind
the bar. And then turning to Adam "So you and your little friend have come
to save us...our pour benighted souls." He raised his glass and sang "Go
tell to souls benighted of the Lord who came, speak his name and love
proclaim." and then by way of explanation. "I used to sing in the church
choir before my mom kicked my dad out of the house and I found better
things to do." "Your friend seems worried." Adam pointed to the old man who
now sat at a table by himself.  "My friend is a drunk. He also worries
about little green men hiding in the shadows."

"Talk to the Mayor." "The Mayor?" "The Mayor of Westside, Max Wilson, go
get him riled up." Before Adam had a chance to find out more a young woman
sidled up to Pete and leaned on his shoulder. "Hey, Pete who's your good
looking friend." She looked at Adam her head resting on her arm. "Adam here
is a writer and his friend Clay is the engineer." "Benny is my girlfriend."
"Only as long your buying the drinks, honey." Pete motioned them to a table
where two girls, friends of Pete and Benny, where already sitting. 

"Adam here is a hero." Pete said after introductions. "He wants to save
Westside." He added with dramatic wave of his hand. "Save it for what?"
asked Jackie, one of the young women at the table. "I'm getting out of here
as soon as I can." said the other one. "How about you fellows take me with
you back to where ever you came from?" "Where are you from anyway?" asked
Jackie.  "Brookside." said Adam. "College kids eh." "We both went to
state," Adam acknowledged. "I went there once myself" said the other girl
"but those boys weren't so nice as they looked. Are you nice?" Adam laughed
and looked at Clay. "What do you think?" "Whose he?" Jackie motioned toward
Clay. "Your friend or your brother?" "He's a friend. We share an
apartment." "He doesn't say much but he is kinda cute. I can see why you
keep him around."  

By the time they woke, the sun was on the wane. Like the hand of a clock it
had slowly made is way around the room till it found its way to Clay where
had collapsed on the couch still fully dressed in the early hours of the
morning. "A lovely people," he moaned as he made a feeble attempt to raise
his head and look around to see if any of them had followed him home. "I
think the redhead really liked you," responded Adam who had been sitting
awake in the living room chair for the past half an hour just staring at
the ceiling. "That's unfortunate." responded Clay.

We need to find someone in the community that can help us. You heard them,
those people don't care. They don't even want to be saved. But they are
losing their homes. They don't care. I don't think they even like it there.
We have talked with four drunks. Five you forgot the old guy at the bar.
Yes, but he actually cared. Right, One of out five drunks recommend saving
Westside. That will make a lovely headline.

He mentioned a name. Max Wilson. Yes. I think we should talk to him. Well
you are on your own. I can't miss another day of work.

Are you Max Wilson? Yes. Pete Konlasky suggested that I speak with you.
Pete. How do you know him. I don't really. Just met him in a bar.
Max runs a store or something public and popular. He contacts the Mayor
since he has a cousin. They know each other. The meeting goes badly.
Max starts to protest. The city moves quickly.

"Lawson wants to buy all of Eastside. All 46 acres." The man just looked at
them for a moment and then gestured toward a table. "How about we have a
seat and you can tell me all about it."  We have the information from city
hall. Do you know how many families live her. Peter just shook his head.
2700. Do you know how many apartments they plan to build on this land? 477.
They plan to replace the entire city with eight superblocks, just erase the
whole thing.

The next day they did not wake until well after noon. 

"Maybe we can help." said Adam leaning forward to look at the man. "Maybe
you can help?" he laughed. "Our knight in fine wool tweed." He said not
bothering to look back at Adam. "I'm a journalist." said Adam. "I could
write a story. I could tell your story."

HIS VOICE HIGH CLAY GETS DRUNK.
"Have you ever been to Westside? I mean have you ever been here before
tonight?" he asked now looking at Adam. "No" acknowledged Adam. "And now
you want to come here to save us?  And what is in it for you?" "I'm not
sure I understand?" said Adam and then after a pause. "I guess the pride of
helping others." "The pride of helping others." the man smiled and shook
his head. "And what about our pride?" he continued to grin. After no one
spoke for a few seconds. The man said, "Listen, I don't mean to bust your
balls."  and then pointed to a booth with his beer "Here lets have a seat.
I'll tell you the story and maybe you can save us."

They moved to a large booth in the corner of the room. The man introduced
himself as Peter Lansky. He was was born in Westside. His father had lived
here back when there were separate sections for the Poles and the Italians.

He told them how the city had essentially condemned Westside, claiming that
the narrow streets were a fire hazard and that approximately 80 percent of
the buildings were either substandard or marginal.

Westside covered over 46 acres of land and housed 2700 families. The people
had been promised that affordable housing would be found for them and many
were led to believe that they would move back into the West End after the
project was complete. Through a friend at City Hall, Peter had seen plans
for the five residential high rises that would be built on superblocks
replacing the original city layout. They would include only 477 apartments
with shopping centers and parking lots aimed at the upper middle class.

"So what are you going to do?" asked Adam. Peter rubbed the scar on his
cheek with his thumb. It was raised and smooth but of inconsistent width,
like a river that swelled and narrowed as it made its way from cheekbone to
jawline. "We will keep fighting." he smiled.

Just then two of Peter's friends waved to him from the entrance to the bar.
They were both tall and broad much like Adam, but unlike Adam carried their
weight like a burden as they plowed their way across the bar making little
effort to navigate around the maze of tables and chairs.

Peter introduced them as brothers, Sam and Jake. "I'm was just telling
these gentlemen about the future of Westside." "Yeah, some future." Jake
said. "But if he says he got a condo to sell you, don't trust him. He's
getting tossed out of here just like the rest of us."

They both looked at Adam and Clay. "Adam's a writer." Jake filled them in.
"He wants to write a story about Westside. He writes for magazine that is
popular with the folks across the river." "Yeah" said Jake. "Get all the
kids from State College to come over here and protest. The city's gotta be
a lot more careful with the college kids." He said sarcastically.

"Hanny went to State." said Sam. "Hanny played football." said Jake said as
if this was not the same thing. "Hanny Nowak? I played with him for two
years." said Adam who had switched from track to football for his junior and
senior year. 

"You played with Hanny." Jake said as he looked at Adam trying to reframe
his initial impression. "He was a year a head of us, but we all played
together in high school. What a great kid." Jake then reached over to shake
Adam's hand. "Too bad what happened." Jake added. Hanny had gone on to play
professional football for a couple of years but then got dropped from the
league. A year later he was found dead. The cause of death was
inconclusive, but everyone suspected suicide.

"Don't suppose you played football as well?" Jake laughed as he punched
Clay in the shoulder just hard enough that he spilled his drink. "Jake."
Peter said shaking his head.

k

So what are you going to do. We will continue to protest. The problem is
that many people don't believe it will happen and some have been told that
they will get their house back. 

Peter's friends join them. Rough and strong. Fighters. They will kick some
ass. They vandalize equipment. March in the street. Small things then much
bigger things.

The police fight back and super man saves them.

Where are you both from? We live across the river. College kids said his
friend. So what do you care what happens on this side of town. When was the
last time you came here. Well we have never been here. What are you three
going to do. You come here to tell us what to do? Adam had played football
and still enjoyed going to the game. He played in a famous game. Knew one
of their friends. A woman joins them and flirts with Adam.

We spike the trucks. They can't start because we have spiked the trucks.
They are trying to hire us to take down our own city, so they have bring in
guys from the outside. Yeah will who is this guy. He is with me. He don't
look like no football player.  


In October 1957, the BRA held a hearing on the new project. At least 200
West End residents attended and the consensus was overwhelmingly opposed to
the plan. The Save the West End committee was formed with the support of
Joseph Lee to organize protests against the new development. Most residents
believed that the project would not be realized, and so did not act until
it was too late.[6]

Residents received their eviction letters on April 25, 1958. The BRA used
the Housing Act of 1949 to raze the West End to the ground. Working-class
families were displaced, and superblocks replaced the original street
layout. The result was a neighborhood consisting of residential high rises,
shopping centers and parking lots. 
k

seitthese people think that real estate developers should give 15
n involved completely leveling a 46-acre (190,000 m2) portion of the West
End, displacing 2,700 families to make way for 5 residential high rise
complexes that would contain only 477 apartments.[6] The new development
was aimed towards upper middle class residents: most of those displaced
would not be able to afford to return. 
percent of their profits away? They're not asking from grocery stores, gas
stations, haberdasheries. They only ask real estate developers. Why is
that?" It's probably because grocery stores and haberdashers don't directly
make any money off of housing, but Palmer's already made up his mind. "It's
not American." destroy grass water, fight for car destroyed entire city.
years. Why
do the politicians let him do this to our city." "There is no law against
being greedy." "I think this has gone too far. I think we need to pay him a
visit." 

T

The meet the leader of the resistance in a bar. They all get too drunk. A
fight women at the table. A female bar tender. Bad language. Implied sex.
Mean toward clay.  Return home with no memory of the evening. 


The streets
were crowded and dirty and poorly lit.

They debauchery.
Sunday is spent hung over. 

The people protest. The protest turns violent. Adam and Clay save them.
Overwhelm the administration forces/police. The then visit Winnie because
administrations change. 

he problem is they (city) don't know what we save them from because it
never happens." Other heros come in after the disaster. But our disasters
are not dramatic events but a slow undoing of 

Put people out of jobs. Chain stores more efficient.

Stops a pipeline.

Stops a highway.

Destroys cell towers.

Coal fired plants.

Dumping into rivers.

Children workers

Union busting

"What does it say about the pipeline protest?"
asked Clay who had turned away from Adam to pour himself some tea at the
kitchen counter. Adam turned back a few pages, "It looks like the forces
for good are still holding strong. The state halted work on the pipeline
while they review the most recent claims made by native Americans." "That's
not going to hold them up too long."
white shirt, tie and sport coat. ride a motorcycle. 


****************

He fights against common capitalistic aggression. He is not appreciated. He
has a sidekick. He lives like the batman character. He drinks. He is macho
to hide is own insecurity about his sexuality. His super power is mostly
just strength like Captain America. His targets have committed no federal
or state crimes just crimes against the common man. He does not understand
women forever carrying their vestigial glands front and center. He loves
his sidekick and they fall into "low-life" behavior gambling, dirty bars. 


