A man is sitting at a bench with an electronic device in his hand. The device
is attached to his ear through a single cord. He sits, head cocked listening
intently as if he is getting messages from an alien planet. If that were
possible, I would buy one of those devices.

My dad is dead. He has only been dead for a few years. People said I would
miss him, but I don't. He was not a very good dad. Sometimes when I pick up
the phone and there is no sound on the other end except a faint, click,
click, I think it is my Dad trying to call me.

A motorcycle rider sits and waits for a bus to New Hampshire. I know he is
a motorcycle rider because it says so on his jacket. He sits hunched. His
large hands clasped and resting on his long legs. He is staring at the
floor.  Maybe his motorcycle is broken. Maybe he is afraid to ride his
motorcycle.  Maybe his mommy took his motorcycle away because he was a bad
boy. Maybe he will make motorcycle noises in his seat all the way to New
Hampshire.

I am sitting on a city bus. The bus is filled with people of many different
shapes and sizes. I did not get to choose them. If I had, I might have chosen
differently.

I am sitting on a city bus. The bus is filled with people of many different
shapes and sizes. Next to the bus is a woman in a car. On the bumper of her
car is the single word diversity. There are no words on the bumper of the
bus. 

A family of hippies emerge from Starbucks. I know they are hippies because
the father has a beard and a pony tail. The mother wears a long skirt and
sandals.  Their two kids are in tie died shirts. For a moment, I imagine
them breaking into a run, pursued by the store manager as they make away
with their stolen coffees and pastries. Instead they hop into their minivan
and drive away.

As the bus leaves the station, a dozen television screens begin playing a
movie. The driver instructs the passengers to please limit their cell phone
conversations, so as not to interfere with the movie. I wonder if it is
intended to deliver a message of great importance.

On the screen are two people trying to shoot each other. Looking out the
window I see an endless line of trees. The trees are not trying to shoot
each other, so they have a difficult time competing for the passengers
attention. I am hoping that someone's cell phone will ring.

In the morning she wakes next to her sleeping lover. She opens her eyes.
Her hand reaches for the device that she always keeps close to her side.
The blue screen illuminates her face in the dark and she silently resumes a
conversation that has only been interrupted by the nights sleep. 

A man brags to me about all the liberal bumper stickers he has on the back
of his car. I can't believe he is serious. I am not sure what more I
can say about this.

Before the bus leaves the station, the woman in front of me has eaten a bag
of orange colored chips and drunk a bottle of green colored drink. We were
humans.

A  mucsels of no use.
It has been approved by the USDA.

A man meets people and tells them he loves them. He talks with a woman who
has had a hard life. She has found God. He tells, you are beautiful, you
are wonder, I love you with all my heart. She feels that he is Jesus and so
he then becomes convinced that he is Jesus. He dedicates his life to
telling people he loves them. This is just one character of many!
Word gets around and people start to believe that he is Jesus
He enters town from the outside. He wanders in by bus and has no cell phone
and no information. All the town does not know how to deal with him. The
paster thinks he is satin because he is jealous of his healing power.

He could have an affair with the pastors wife.  There is a mechanic, maybe
a friend, maybe not. Where does he work. Maybe the whole town is suspicious
and meets to discuss him.

Is there a crime in the town. Are their secrets uncovered? Is there an
affair going on.
A young girl confronts him saying I'm not afraid of you? (Maybe she has
something to hide) Also maybe a rumor develops that he can do miracles or
find truth. He wonders why should you be afraid of me.
A young girl loves him. 

The people of the town put on him their own fears and expectations and so
reveal themselves to each other and to him. He does not know his powers.
People want him to solve their problems.

The dog barks at him.

He does not go to church and this makes him suspicious. He does not go in
cars and this makes him suspicious.  
He comes upon cool teenagers doing drugs at night. Do they mock him or are
they afraid of him.

The person he hugs (you are beautiful) above is a rep of his mother.


