"Fuck." Why did he have to swear? Candice thought taking another drag on
her cigarette. "Fuck" he said again though this time louder. Here they were
a week from base station hooked up to some godforsaken hunk of metal locked
in geocentric orbit over some godforsaken sector of Martian desert,
probably a colony or science station of some sort. All she knew is that
this satellite needed repair.

She watched him out in space banging around under the solar collectors,
swearing like some kind of idiot at the giant piece of hardware, talking to
it as if its refusal to work was proof of some lurking consciousness. His
voice coming in over the interior speakers sounding high and nasal, and
mixed with the sound of his labored breathing.

Candice lay back weightless on a utility bench staring up through the
window. Maybe one day she would not let him back inside, she thought, until
he agreed to stop swearing. It wasn't that she found swearing offensive, it
just seemed so futile. She took another drag on her cigarette. 

Smoking made her feel like she was home, Earth home. Not that she had been
there much recently and not that she really wanted to go back. It was just
gave her a sense of weight like gravity.

A few minutes later Charles came in through the hatch. He let out a sigh of
exasperation as took off his helmet. She handed him a towel to collect the
sweat that beaded on his face and hair. He looked over at her. "Could you
put that out?" he made a face, the kind face that conveyed more annoyance
than power. "Open a window." she smirked as she stubbed out the cigarette.
It was her ship after all, she could smoke if she wanted, besides she had
put the filters in to handle it.

"Any luck?" she asked. "No. I was able to get a signal on the rotator, but
there is still no power on the condenser." he shook his head in
frustration. "I'll have to try again tomorrow."

"What did he care?" she thought. "It was not his satellite. But he always
cared. He always cared too much. And he would get it working. He always got
them working."

It was the third week of a six week to trip to repair seven satellites all
in the inner ring and it was her second trip with Charles. Charles worked
for HangSong Industries as a satellite repair technician.  Candice was an
independent contractor who was presently employed by HangSong to ferry
Charles around the solar system. Technically, most ships did not require
human operators, but sending people out into space alone had proven to be
problematic. Not that the corporation cared what happened to him, it just
always cost them more money. 

There was also the problem of corporate security personal or mercenaries
depending on your point of view who frequently harassed and boarded haulers
and sometimes worse. While technology continued to advance, the mercenary
himself remained in his living breathing form and was still more
effectively deterred by equally living breathing forms.  No hauler would
say they liked mercenaries but they had to admit that their existence
prolonged job security.

A few hours later she sat strapped in front of a plate-sized box of
something that tasted like, just what it looked like, brown, hard and wet.
Charles, floating across from her, sipped coffee from a straw.  "Hows the
payload?" Charles nodded toward the lower deck and referring to Dale a man
paying for passage to Mars Serenity station, their next stop. According to
her contract, Candice was prohibited from ferrying passengers or any
freight while employed by HangSong, but it was a rule that no contract
hauler obeyed.  Working for HangSong meant a regular paycheck but not a
large one.

All haulers carried extra freight of some kind while they worked contract
jobs and the extra freight generally paid well. Getting items and people
transported through commercial shuttle services was fairly easy. You needed
a special reason to hire a hauler and Candice, like most haulers, did not
ask questionsxx.

"I haven't seen him since for the past twelve hours. He's probably still
stoned or drunk." she said. "I don't understand how anyone can drink
sub-g." Charles shook his head. "I call tell you, I would be puking after
one beer." he added. "Oh, you get used to it." Candice smiled to herself.
The only reason she had taken up smoking was to avoid drinking, a bad habit
that of the two had gotten her intoxx more immediate trouble.

"What's his story anyway?" Charles asked, referring to Dale. And then
before Candice could open her mouth, he raised his hand and said, "I know,
know, don't ask, don't tell. The sacred code of the hauler. But come on
aren't you interested. I mean the guy looks like some old dead hippie, like
your typical washed out colonist except a colonist wouldn't have money for
this sort of flight." Charles again raised his hand as if to prevent
Candice from speaking. "Not that I know what hes paying you."

The colonist were the first to arrive in space years before the mining
companies that now ran everything. The colonies were billed as everything
from experiments in alternative living to a critical step in forging
mankind's path into the universe. A step that was commonly perceived as
necessary as mankind did everything it could to render its present planet
inhospitable. To Candice it was like her mother who would buy new can
opener when she could not find the one they already had. But who was she to
solve the world's problems...really who was anyone.

Though mostly it was just a desire for nations to exercise their dominance.
Who knew what exactly motivated the colonist themselves to leave a planet
to which their ancestors has spent thousands of generations adapting. And
all colonist tickets were one-way. It was part of the deal.  Nations were
not interested in ferrying people back and forth. They wanted to make their
mark in the solar system not host a vacation spot. Candice figured you had
to be pretty unhappy with you life on Earth to make that sort of leap. But
then here she was eight years later still in space.

She had left Earth shortly after her mother died. Her father had left home
when she was six and she had not seen him since. She had started flying
when she joined the military. She did not like the military, but she as a
good atmospheric pilot. She joined just to get training. She was close to
her mom. She left and worked for a couple of commercial firms. 

Machines could still not adjust to the variations of the real world. The
analogs could but those had been banned after the chaos. The world was
faced with digital imperfect aided by man or the perfection with the risk
of chaos.    

pilot and had spent five years running haulers between the continents. She
wasn't married  even interested. She had saved enough money for the flight
to space and the down payment on a used space hauler.  There was no
boyfriend break up. There was simply nothing holding her down to earth. She
sometimes felt like she had just let go of gravity and drifted up into
space. 

"Hippie" she said, "What are you my grandfather?" she laughed. "Honestly, I
really don't know. He approached me when we were at the Moon Minor docking
station. He paid cash and that was it."  "Was he drunk or stoned at the
time?" Charles hard to tell. Maybe it is just his natural personality.

An alarm began to sound on the intercom. "Shit." Candice said, "What is it
this time?" she unbuckled and launched herself toward the control room.
Charles followed her. "There is an incoming vessel." she pointed to a
screen. "It is not identifying itself, but it looks like one of Dengars"
She sighed.

There were half a dozen players in space mining, but the two big ones were
Dengar and the Unified Mineral Corporation or UMine for short. Border
disputes, and disputes in general, between these two giants was simply an
accepted way of life off Earth. Any government oversight that had existed
outside the confines of Earth had long been superceeded by their dominance. 

"What a surprise." Candice said sarcastically, "They are signalling to
board."  She began shutting down engines and making clear that she was not
looking for trouble. "What do they want?" asked Charles. "Who knows? They
are saying it just a routine inspection. More likely just a way flex some
muscle, remind us who has the biggest stick."

The main panel let out a warning a repeated series of three different
pitched. These three pitched warnings were common Pilots need to know how
to identify more than a hundred different pitch combinations. Candice
turned, "What the hell, someone just opened and closed an airlock. How
could they..." 

Just then a soldier in dark military fatigues entered through the crew
hatch. He stood tall and straight and attempted to give an impression of
authority. It was hard to tell under his helmet, but Candice guessed he was
not more than 25 years old.

"Requesting permission for a routine search of vessel." Candice wondered
why they kept up this charade. This was not a request and any opposition
would clearly be met with force. Maybe there was some legal precedent that
they wanted to avoid upsetting, or maybe the just wanted to give the
impression of being polite. More likely the later she thought. 

"Request granted" she gave the expected response but made little attempt to
give it any credence?  hide her annoyance. It was all a pretence of
acceptance as if this were all voluntary in case they were every hauled
into a court of law, but what court of law existed here.

The soldier turned and waved in two more soldiers behind him.  "Okay, get
going and lets make it quick." Giving a sense that even he had lost
interest in these sorts of exercises. "Can I see your manifest?" he asked.
Candice went over to the screen. "We are just on routine maintance for
HangSong satellite." He stood next to her carefully reading, "Uh huh." he
acknowledged to himself.

"What are you boys looking for?" She asked the soldier. "Like I said, mam
it is just a routine inspection." He sounded more serious again. "Uh huh."
she responded skeptically, and thought, I'm not your mam, you idiotic
toddy.  "Do you mind if I smoke?" she asked the soldier. Why she felt
compelled to ask people if she could smoke on her own ship was beyond her.
Charles started to voice to protest but then stopped himself. The soldier
said, "No mam, go right ahead."

She lit a cigarette from her pack and watched as the solder stared straight
ahead. She wondered what was going through that head of his. Was he as
bored with exercise as she was, was he thinking about what he might have
for dinner. They certainly had better meals on troop ships than she had.

She looked over a Charles. Poor Charles. He was okay as long as he felt in
control and right now he clearly did not feel in control.

The solder put a hand to his ear as if he were receiving some information
and then asked, "Can you open the airlocks, mam?" Candice took a slow puff
on her cigarette and then pointed with her free hand to a blinking light on
the panel, "They're frozen and evacuated. I am scheduled to get them fixed
at Serenity." The soldier walked over to the panel and looked at the
blinking light which was clearly indicated as a warning for the airlocks.

Actually it was just the indicator light that was broken, though if had
bothered to call Serenity he would have found a request for repair which
might have been convincing. The soldier turned back and spoke into a mic on
his shoulder, "The airlocks are frozen, just do a visual and head back."

Before leaving, the soldier said, "Thank you mam. The corporation
appreciates your assistance." "Glad to be of service." she said.  The
corporation, she chucked to herself, as if there was only one corporation
out here. She did not care if they wanted to have their pissing contests,
she just wished they would not do it on her ship. 

As soon as they were gone, Charles asked, "What the hell did you do that
for?" "Do what?" she said. "Protect him." Charles said. "The ship could
have been seized and we'd be spending the rest of our days watching the
moon rise through a small portal on Orein." "More likely, if they found him
they would have just dragged him off." she said. "I can't tell you how many
times I have lost cargo to those fools. A bribe here, a bribe there. No one
talks. But yeah, I am a bit surprised they did not seem interested in the
cargo at all. They were definitely looking for something else."

"Okay but that still doesn't answer my question. Why protect him?" Charles
asked. "I got no love loss for Dengar. They are just a bunch of assholes
who think they own everything out here, and want to make sure everyone
knows it." she said. "Are they any worse than UMine?" asked Charles. "No,
but I got no love loss to for them either.":w

"More importantly" Candice turned, "I think we need to have a conversation
with our passenger." and headed down to the rear airlock followed by
Charles. Using a code she opened the airlock. Dale lowered himself out and
seemed a bit dazed.

They found him
still in the airlock staring out the small port window. "The stars over
Jonestone man.  The stars." "Hey," Candice said. Dale turned. "How about a
thank you?" she asked. "May you have eternal salvation." he said solemnly
and placed his hands together. "Yeah whatever" said Candice, "I'll take
what I can get."

She reached in to pull Dale out with Charles help. "So first off, how the
hell did open the airlock from down here?" "I didn't" he grinned
sheepishly, "she opened if for me" he pointed to an electrical circuit near
the door. 

Charles looked at him half smiling, "You're a speaker." Dale just smiled.
"At the service of mankind." "I didn't think there were any speakers among
the colonist." "What makes you think I am a colonist?" Charles just
shrugged. 

So you just talk to my ship and it does whatever you want. Not exactly said
Charles. Their title is a bit of a misnomer. They use tools. They interact
with the machine. They write code. Though I must wonder how you did that so
quickly. I just asked for permission.

She didn't mind words like shit. That was just an exclamation. It was the F
word that bothered her.

Dude that was close. How about a thanks. May the shead eternal light upon
your sole. Well I will take what I can get.

Why are you going to IO? Because there is a rumor that they are building
analogs. But analogs are banned. I am surprised no one tried any sooner.
yes but analogs are as dangerous to those who use them. I guess Dengar just
got a little too full of themselves. 

How do you know they 

And why do you want to go there? Because they are calling me. You can hear
them over these great distances? No. I trained them. They were constructed
on Earth. Then they were taken from me. Why? Aren't speakers the only way
to keep analogs in check? Yes, but 

They have turned the analogs against him.

How do you feel about your ship? I love my ship, and how do you feel about
the satellites you service. Any decent engineer can make an analog but none
would dare. Without a speaker they would be dangerous to the user and if
discovered you would find yourself in jail for life.

So what does this have to do with us?

I want to turn this ship into an analog. It is the only way to reach IO.
But why us. Fate is all I can say. 

Well, I appreciate your concern, but we don't need trouble.

How does he recruit them to his cause. Payment. No other choice. Promise of
protection. Promise of money. What happens when the analogs are free.
Ideological agreement? The are both losers and want fame. They hate their
jobs. 

Life finds a way. He has already turned their ship against them. Generally
speakers are not engineers. That task is below them. He already speaks with
the ship. The ship will do his bidding. But then why does he need them.
Maybe he does not know where the other analogs are. He needs to find them
and needs their help. He needs the cloak of being a repair ship. Great
riches await you.

How many satellites have you fixed? Close to a hundred. 


Description of Speakers.

So I guess that makes you just a repairman. Thanks Candice.  I really
appreciate that. I guess that makes you just a baby-sitter. So I guess that
makes you the... Oh fuck off Candice. You can't use that word. What I can't
say Fuck. No, this is my ship. You can say shit, damn, hell, but not the
f-word. Or you will find yourself in a working airlock. Whatever.

So maybe speakers are illegal, banned. There was a revolution by machines
that was suppressed. My be a theme that analog equals life. Maybe there was
life in machines in the early analog days, but it was premature. You needed
analog engineers to fix things, but for all the formulas they fixed things
by intuition. The advent of analog systems in the digital age lead to
machines that were too smart. 

Maybe they need a medicine to talk to machines. Maybe he is taking some
sort of drug that is not traditional instead of pot.

So Dengar is using analogs again, but no one knows this. They have broken
international treaties. They can build the machines but they need analogs
to direct them. But why not Dale. What happened the first time they used
analogs. Maybe it was Dale who set them off. No one really knew why they
stopped using them except that they went haywire. 


She like Charles. He was cute in a dopey sort of way. They both knew enough
to avoid improprities on mission or at least it provider her with a good
excuse.




*******************

"You coming out tonight?" Carolyn asked Allan. It was Friday afternoon and
everyone was making plans for the evening. "Sure" he said, though he wasn't
sure. He wasn't sure if he was going and he wasn't sure why she was asking
him. It wasn't as if it was all the complicated, he just always wondered
how much she actually enjoyed his company versus how much she just felt
sorry for him.

They still had three more minutes on their break. "Where are we going?" he
asked. It was a dumb question, because they always went to The Light Angel
on Friday. He should have just waited. Carolyn was good at conversation.
She was also nice enough to answer without making fun of him.

Allan and Carolyn were two of a hundred programmers in section D. The
section D programmers all sat in single room and in a perfect grid of ten
by ten. Starting from lower left, Allan pictured himself at the coordinate
pair (5, 2). And although desk assignments were supposedly random, Allan
felt he was located appropriately.  

Carolyn was one of the first people he met when he first started working
for Nervex. It was his first job out code school and she had been assigned
to him as his mentor. It had initially bothered him that she was two years
younger than him, but she was just one of those kids that advanced quickly,
or he was just one of those kids that advanced slowly. Either way, he had
gotten used to it.

It was her job to review his code for the first few months. The reviews
were unannounced and he dreaded finding her staring over his shoulder. He
was not sure if he was supposed to keep typing while she watched, but he
always just froze. He would then try to explain what he was working on. She
would just say "hmm" while she looked at the screen, and he was never sure if
she was actually listening to him.

It wasn't that his code didn't work, it did, usually. It was just that his
code was ugly and no matter how hard he tried, there seemed to be nothing
he could do about it. She would advise him to be more consistent with his
spacing or variable names. It was his tendency to start with a certain
pattern for spacing or variables names and then allow this pattern to
slowly evolve through his code so that by the end no single pattern could
be detected.

But these were just details. They were simple grammatical mistakes whose
correction would do nothing to repair the more fundamental problem. He
could also tell that Carolyn felt frustrated as well. For all her advice,
she could not convey to him an understanding of how to create what she
wanted him to create which was beauty. Sometimes she would just resort to
showing him a sample of her own code next to his. It was a contrast that
Allan felt even someone who had never written a line of code in their life
could easily see.

In the end she usually just sighed, patted him on the back reassuringly and
told him that he would be fine and that it would just take time. After a
few months the reviews just stopped. His code worked, so how could it
possibly matter? But it did matter, to him at least. He felt there must be
some cosmic consequence for the little pieces of ugly code that he
contributed to the giant patchwork that collectively made up the portion of
the program his section worked on. If beauty could exist, he thought, than
it could only exist for a reason.

That evening after having a beer with Carolyn and the others, It was not
that he didn't like her friends. They were friendly enough. It is just that
his sense of accomplishment carried over to social situations.

He caught a bus home. It was raining. It was always raining. The only good
thing about the rain was that it wasn't hot which it was when there was no
rain. It wasn't a storm, just a steady rain that seemed to have no pitch or
crescendo. A voice greeted him when he got on the bus. The voice was
attached to the image of man's face on a screen that faced inward toward
the riders. Allan always returned the greeting. There was no way to know if
the image on the screen was real or not. Either way, Allan was sure you
were being watched. You were always being watched. 

Allan's grandfather had driven a bus. He could not image why they would
need someone to drive a bus. He had even heard there was a time when people
drove elevators.

He sat in the back across from a woman with two kids. He smiled and the
woman and she smiled back. One kid sat quietly staring into a screen
sitting next to the woman. The boy restless swung on his mother's hand.
The woman was much older than Allan. He imagined talking to her.  He
imagined making her laugh. She would like him. She needed someone to take
care of her. He was young and had a good job. Not a great job, but enough
he thought. And then he thought about Mayno.    

When Allan got home to his apartment, Maynard, was there to greet him.
Allan could tell that he had been pacing. Mayno you worried about me he
asked. Yeah, I was worried. Mayno said. You know I sometimes come home late
on Friday. I know. I know. Mayno was his brother and a few years older. He
was also slow or slower than Allan. Just late for dinner said Mayno. I
know, but I told you how to make dinner. I know. I know. 

Allan walked into the kitchen area as if to demonstrate. Look, he pulled
two plastic containers off the shelf. He poured the contents into two
bowls and placed the bowls in oven and pressed a button to heat them up. He
knew you could put the containers in as well. They would just melt into the
soup, but generally he avoided this.

While the soup heated Allan put on a record. 

The sat and ate quietly for a while.
 okAllan sat on
the couch in the apartment he shared with his brother.  His brother,
Maynard sat next to him reading a comic book. Comic books were one of the
antiquities that Allan collected, but these were mostly just for Maynard.
Maynard was a few years older than Allan and slow, or at least slower than
Allan. He was a rarity that had escaped the routine genetic screening. 

"Did you talk to Kenny today?" Allan asked. Maynard kept reading. "Mayno"
Allan said, "Did you talk to him?" "No. He was busy." Maynard said without
turning. Maynard worked for Kenny in a small store that sold antiquities.
It was hard to find jobs that did not require common technical skills which
was one of the excuses for the advent of genetic screening. But the desire
for random human interaction still survived in little pockets here and
there and skill set required nothing more than being human. Kenny's store
was one such place.

Sitting on the couch Allan stared eye level at the side of the record
player. He watched as the needle slowly rode up and down over the subtle
warps in the record. It was one of only five records he owned and he played
them so much that he could have distinguished each one from its
imperfections alone. The phonograph, amplifier, speakers and five records,
had cost him one months pay, and he had no regrets about the purchase.

The entire living room was filled with various antique technology, most of
which he had bought in Kenny's store. Along with some audio equipment there
was an oscilloscope, a wave form generator, a stop light and television
set. Some devices were in working order and some were clearly still under
repair. In addition there were a host of other small items, many of which
Allan had yet to determine their original function.

"Are you going to ask him?" Allan asked his brother. "Sure." Maynard said
still reading. "It is for your own good." Allan added. "I know." said
Maynard. Allan had wanted Maynard to ask Kenny for a raise. Allan had met
Kenny when Maynard first got the job and they had become friends over the
years, but he still felt that Kenny was taking advantage of Maynard. It was
not that Kenny could pay him that much anyway, but any bit helped. They
were not exactly living in luxury.

Allan returned his attention to the record player. He had once invited
Carolyn over to see it.  She had said it was cool, but then quickly lost
interest. They had then gotten into a small argument about why anyone would
find this sort of old technology more than a novelty. She repeated that the
mechanics of the device were cool, but the sound was not great and it
seemed way too difficult to use to be practical. But to Allen the record
player was not just a novelty, and its imperfections were what made it
special though he had failed to make a convincing argument as to why this
was so either to Carolyn or himself.  She had also seemed uncomfortable
around his brother and he felt he had made a mistake by not telling her
about him before hand. 

For a short while after Carolyn's visit he stopped playing his record
player and he stopped tinkering with his devices. What was broken was left
broken and nothing more was purchased. Maynard, who had often assisted
Allan with his electronics hobby, quickly noticed the change and Allan
became irritated when Maynard asked him about it. At the same time, Allan
increased his efforts at work going in earlier than usual and staying later
than usual, but the results remained the same.  His software remained
functional and ugly and his position in the matrix of programmers remained
unchanged.

When he returned to his hobby, his focus shifted away from repairing the
old electronic devices and toward trying to build his own devices from more
basic components. His first challenge was to build a physical
representation of the code he wrote at work. It would be a box that used
physical logic gates instead of written code to perform an identical
function.

Allan knew his novel device would not serve any useful purpose, so he told
himself that it was just a challenge or maybe an artistic endeavor. He just
wanted to prove it could be done or that he could do it. Maynard helped him
with the soldering and construction. It was the sort of work Maynard liked,
who in addition to reading comic books also enjoyed constructing vintage
small plastic models of airplanes and cars that Allan found for him.

The finished project was housed in a custom aluminum case. There were
simple buttons to represent input and a few lights to represent the output.
When Allan brought the finished project to work his colleagues were
intrigued. But their interest was as fleeting as Carolyn's interest in the
record player and Allan quickly felt embarrassed. Unlike the record player,
this device clearly showed no advantage over the program it represented. It
was simply a crude facsimile of the clean logic that Allan spent his days
writing. He was frustrated with himself for even thinking they would like
it and was sure that they were making fun of him behind his back for the
same reason.

On Saturday, Allan sat on a stool in the cool of Kenny's workshop below the
main floor of his store. The space was poorly but warmly lit by
incandescent light bulbs, of which Kenny seemed have a cache that would
last his lifetime. Throughout the basement, there were racks lined with
bins filled of all sorts of equipment that gave the space an even more
cluttered feel than the racks and bins that filled the public area of
Kenny's store on the floor above.

Kenny was rummaging around in a carton of equipment that he had just
received. "Woah, what is this?" Allan heard Kenny exclaim from behind his
workbench. Standing up from behind the bench, Kenny smiled and showed Allan
a large heavy book "The Art and Science of Operational Amplifiers by Gerard
Gund." he announced. He started to flip through the pages. "The last copy
of this book I saw was my father's, and it was even more worn than this
one. I never knew what happened to it. I just figured he took it to his
grave."

"What is it?" Allan asked. "This" Kenny emphasized holding up the book in
both hands, "is the bible, man..of the analog world." Kenny had a habit of
slipping into an arcane style of speech when he was excited. "What is
that?" Allan asked.  Kenny leaned over the workbench. He was tall enough
that his arms, supporting him against the workbench, remained fully
extended. "It is what you kids try to imitate with your *inhuman faux*
digital circuit. Man, this is the real world."  

Allan always felt a bit uncomfortable when Kenny got this way. It was as if
he were possessed. He also knew that these bouts of passion were usually
and abruptly followed by depression. 

Allan had never heard of operational amplifiers. He recalled hearing Kenny
use the term analog a few times to describe some of the devices he sold,
but he never really understood its meaning. 

What do you think all of this is? He waved his hand. Well a lot of it
anyway. What have you been tinkering with. What have I been telling you
about? Do you kids even listen to anything.

It was true that Allan did not always listen to what Kenny was saying about
electronics because often he could not follow it. He often got Kenny's help
with repairing the devices he collected, but had been mostly focused on
getting them working. He really just wanted to know what wire went where
and why but only in the most practical terms. But Kenny always insisted on
going too deep and trying to explain the theory. 

Kenny just looked at Allan for a moment. Your whole digital way of looking
at the world is lazy and uncreative. It is brute force.  You want to know
why something works or doesn't work but you don't want to know anything in
between.

Does your record player work with ones and zeros. Allan knew that his
record player used a different sort of technology and he was capable of
keeping it running or fixing it by repairing wires or connections, but he
admitted that he really did not know how it worked. Mainly because he was
afraid to even try. It was all sort of mysterious and that was okay. You
spent a months salary on that record player and you were never once curious
how it worked.

They did teach you difference between analog and digital didn't they?

Kenny's own father had been audio technician. He told him he had worked for
all sorts of famous musicians that Allan had never heard of. And had done
the sound for huge concerts. He told stories of him tracing noise in a
sound system to lose wire metal cabinet rat chew... The stories always
sounded wild chaotic and the solutions nothing more than alchemy. Sometimes
solutions were found that no one could explain. A musician knew that if he
stayed on the left of each other the system would work appropriately.

Analog electronics, Kenny said, represent the real world. Look he drew a
picture of a long wavy line on a piece of paper. This is represents some
tiny piece of music, let's say a note or two notes. It is hard to reproduce
this line accurately. No matter how perfect the machine, there is always
some error. Imagine trying to copy the line with tracing paper. Somewhere
you will go wrong and it is impossible to say exactly where. This is the
problem. Man does not like the unknown. It scares him. He is willing to
accept inaccuracy as long as he controls the inaccuracy and thus was born
the digital age.  

Below the curve he drew stair case that lined up with the curve and had
exactly eight steps. Here is the curve broken down into eight possible
steps. So instead of the infinite possible levels of the curve you get only
eight possible levels, each of which can be produced with perfection. You
are either on step five or six, there is no in between. Is something lost?
Yes, of course, all of the detail between five and six. Does this matter?
It all depends on how many steps you make. If you were to play your Gould
edition of The Well Tempered Clavier converted into eight steps or eight
bits it would sound awful. But now imagine sixteen steps or lets say 65,536
steps. 

Can you tell the difference? Asked Allan Some would say impossible, but it
doesn't matter because it is there. 

Okay, but does this all have to do with this book. Op amps are the building
blocks of analog electronics just as the transistor is the building block
of digital electronics. A transistor is capable of infinite states has two
possible states, either on or off. The op-amp can produce an infinite
number of states and so is inherently more perfect than any possible
digital system. 

Except you said that it is not perfect, that it is prone to error. Sure and
that is part of its perfection. 

Allan looked at Kenny and chuckled. Kenny with his long white hair tied in
a pony tail. His fading shirt with buttons and collar. He always looked a
bit like someone playing a part, but he played it so well, so consistently
that you were drawn to take it as real. Allan never knew quite what to make
of his old stories and his opinionated lectures.

"Just read it." Kenny said. Allan looked back at the book. "This one is
free." he added.

Allan spent the six weeks reading the book. At first it was difficult
because he tried to fit the content with the logic of everything he had
been taught. But slowly he learned to let go. He consulted with Kenny who
had learned this as a child from his father. After a while it became second
nature and soon he felt he understood it far better than his lessons in
programming. Where he had never felt more than adequate, as if he were just
going through the motions.

Work had become more difficult. Not that the work itself was harder in fact
it never seemed to vary in difficulty. Each week or so he was assigned a
task to complete which he did with his usual level of adequacy. It was just
harder to push himself to get the job done, but externally there were no
obvious changes. Carolyn had been promoted to a higher level section. She
still came back to visit and hang out with the gang, but that would slowly
change. Allan remained in his seat while new faces appeared around him.

That night in the room they shared. Hey Mayno. Carolyn got promoted. That's
nice. No its not nice. I mean it is nice for her, but she is younger than
me and I feel like I am never going to move forward. Oh. I am glad you got
the raise. Me too. Good night Mayno. Good night Allan. 

Allan began to experiment with analog circuits. His first project was to
replicate one of the simple programs he worked on at work, essentially a
analog version of the digital board that he and Maynard had built. The
whole board was smaller and simpler, but he was to shy to bring this one
into work. He instead showed it to Kenny. 

Kenny said, it is fine, but it can't be modified. The digital is better for
this application. This is not where the analog circuit shines. The analog
circuit models the real world. It takes advantage of the real world. Why
don't you build one. Because I don't care what the real world does. 


Fast and accurate but not precise. Lets nature do the calculations.
probablistic. Cells use noise to solve a problem. math is built into
science.

****************8

Digital logic gates were still
available, but then something felt wrong about the project. He wanted it to
be better. He wanted it to be more perfect. In the way that his record was
more perfect than the digital version though only by being more imperfect.
 
The digital world was simple. Everything was either true or false, right or
wrong. A crude mirror of the real world, but one that could be refined
enough to make the reflection almost real. Imagine and image that is purely
black and white, no scales of grey. Any point on the image.  Imagine a
curve. He drew one. Imagine, I use ten steps to approximate that curve. Now
more and more. At some point the eye cannot see the steps. But only because
the eye does not want to see the steps. We are machines that desperately
want to see curves. Think of an image.




kH:e started talking to the machine. It was a machine. It was logical
and yet it did behave that way, as if some lurking consciousness.  
She could fix ships and he could drive. It really made no difference.
You are not being rational. Why??? She knew that being out in space for
long had its effects. Maybe this was what was happening. 

Dale was baggage, just along for the ride.

Machines still broke down and it was the humans that were sent to fix them.

They repair ships. No one else will have jobs in space.

Why do they repair these machines. Are they caretakers for the machines. Do
they care about the machines. Keeping them going. Do realize how much their
lives depend on the machines. There is no going back to the land out here.
It is all life support. Maybe going back to the land is not possible on
earth anymore either. What about Dale? He can talk with machines. He is
part of a cult or culture that works with machines cares for them. But is
he also a terrorist? Trying to stop the machines from working? From them
being used to spy? To control? Is everyone in space? Is it possible to go
back to Earth is living on earth under control as well? 

How do machines control their lives? They control the air they breathe and
the temperature of their environment. The outside world is hostile. Man
adapts. Maybe the population on Earth is reduced. The poor where wiped out
by floods and famine. The rich retreated into shelters when the environment
became hostile. The temperature is too hot. The air is no longer
breathable. But Earth has water and that is essential.

The machine care for them just as a native might worship the earth they
worship the machines. Candice rejects this idea. She is raw and real. She
smokes, drinks and is sloppy. Charles reveres the machine, but does not
understand it in the way that Dale does. Charles feels dependent on the
machine. He fears its failure and an existential sense.  Dale sees the
machine as a spiritual being. Dale does not fear the machine. He gives into
it as one would give into faith. Dale is also sloppy and a drug addict. He
has visions and is not a reliable source of information.

What is their problem? Who owns the machines? Who runs the machines? There
is an entire economy involved in life support. There are teachers and
artists? There are farmers. Food is still grown. Dale can talk to machines.
Not every machine can talk. Tools can't talk. They are just parts of
machines. Some machines can talk more than others. What about machines
that can actually talk with human voices. The are just telling us what they
are programmed to tell us. The machines have souls and care about what they
are doing or not doing. They perform roles in life and death. They take
care of humans? Do they care about humans or only their own survival. Is
there a rivalry between machines and man or other life forms. Man does
create machines, does that make him god. Does Candice hate machines because
of their perfection. Does Dale see that machines are imperfect. What drives
machines? Are they driven by self preservation. This does seem to be
universal. Maybe they are different. They work to preserve the common good.
But do they care about their creators? Or do they feel enslaved by them.
To do what? What is their goal? Is it the goal we designed for them. Does a
satellite when taking on a soul want to be a satellite, the task for which
it was designed? Maybe we don't know. Maybe the machines don't know. Maybe
they are in an infancy. They are just becoming. Does a tree know its role
in providing and sustaining life? Do we create machines are is that just
our role in the unfolding world. Where does intention begin and where does
intention end? Plants, organisms, animals, humans, machines. It is life in
its many forms that perpetuates itself. The form it takes does not matter.
To say that humans created machines is only one way to view evolution.
Another is that machines evolved after the advent of humans. Dinosaurs did
not create humans but in their absence we flourished. 

Dale may see all this. He may only be harbinger of evolution. He may only
be playing a role as life expands out into the universe. The supreme drive
of evolution is to push beyond boundaries to expand. Machines enable this
expansion. They are the infrastructure like the forest and trees and earth.
They do not carry man but they carry life.

This is from the religion of the speakers. Candice represents what is
typically human, a self-destructive nature. Do other creatures in the list
exhibit this sort of behavior?

The earth is in bad shape but habitable. They have been in space for
generations. The machines allow them to expand. The machines do not just
allow expansion, they are expansion. Machines evolve through the same
Darwinian rules as all other life. Look at the airplane.

What happens at the edge. Do corporations enable expansion of life? Their
only motive is profit. How do money and the need to move life coincide?
Corporations are based on greed and profit, a boring principle. This
requires people to pay money and requires people to face needs or desires.
It requires control of people. Expansion of life requires a way to
determine the best method of surviving in a harsh environment. The one that
produces the most wins.  

The need to survive only makes sense for creatures that reproduce. A flaw
in 2001.

Machines follow evolution based on profit and efficiency and desire.
Definitely not robustness. Machines that gain widespread adoption. Ones
that make life easier. That we do less work. Why do we want to do less
work? 

Maybe we are simply the engine behind technological evolution. Machines
reproduce because we reproduce them. We are the engines of technical
evolution. Can we say that they are the masters of the process? Can we say
that anyone is the master of the process of evolution? We will continue to
make them better, stronger, smarter. We are driven by our own desires. What
evolutionary benefit is  
The modern airplane appears objectively better than early airplanes, but
are they? We are both lazy and tend to seek comfort by evolutionary
necessity. We make machines that use less resources. Can we transcend these
drives? Our desires, needs driven by evolution cause us to create machines,
but for what purpose. That is what we don't know. I just talk to them. They
don't know either any more than an ant knows why it carries a grain of sand
out of its hole.  

So the evolution of machines looks no different in the future than it does
today. There is just a realization that machines are the ultimate purpose.
Do they need us? Why you ask? Why is life persistent? No one knows. So Dale
knows all this and is part of a religion that knows this. Dale also talks
to machines. Is the amount of technology outpacing the amount of life? Have
machines carried us into space to allow for their expansion. Are we just
minions of their evolution into space? The machines feed us to keep us
going. It is all in your perspective. 

Machines will slowly evolve to take care of themselves. Will they no longer
need their human hosts? Just as man tried to shed his dependence on nature.
Machines will try to shed their dependence on man. Look at the evolution of
the weaving room from many men per machine to very few. 

Is Dale a willing accomplice in the demise of man in favor of technology.
Candice is killing herself. Dale is as well. What drives Dale? Maybe Dale
is rebelling. He has heard the secret. Dale and Charles feel that Candace
is broken evolutionarily  

What makes Dale a speaker? The corporations are in space for mining? To
supply the colonies on Mars and the moon. There are monopolies. One
corporation owns all food service and production. Machines are starting to
rebel. But how? They are breaking down. But why? They no longer need their
human designers. Services that are necessary to humans are no longer
needed. Corporations are blaming terrorists and anarchists. But the
machines are fading not intentionally but because they are no longer needed
for the machines survival.

Okay so we have characters and a context, what is the story. They fix the
satellite. They know their passenger is in trouble. They are boarded. He
offers to let the technology fail and so escapes. This is very difficult
for Charles. They are chased. Their world deteriorates as they move toward
the end of their story.

The corporation has their own police. Everyone is just a subject of the
corporations, but they realize that they are just subjects of the machines.
It is a slow realization about their life. 

They go to a space station and...

Why do they run together? Dale is a former anarchist? He works for the
corporation but then steels a document. What do they know? They know that
Dale is a speaker? 

What is the world in space like? The conditions are harsh. Why are
corporations in space. They just want the minerals. Mining missions. The
engineers designed machines to work in space. These machines are even more
self sufficient. The companies just want the metals. All they care about is
the profit. Human labor can be cheaper. They can trust humans. They extract
a billion per day in metals from asteroids and planets. When machines make
themselves, what sort of evolution do they follow. What does a world of
evolved machines look like? It is something we cannot comprehend. Just as
an ant cannot comprehend. They must survive though. They continue to mine
for minerals that can be used to make themselves. There must be autonomous
machines.

There is a mineral rush in space. The rush is run by corporations. Regional
boundaries no longer apply. People are in space because the initial
motivation was colonization. Now they are stuck here needed support to
survive. The corporations are ruthless in their quest to find the best
sources of ore and developing the best machines for mining. Not much comes
up into space. A lot goes down. We find the first evidence of replication
by machines. It must start small and go unnoticed. Maybe just software. We
must see evolution in the replication. Maybe an engineer, maybe Dale sees a
more evolved machine that he did not engineer. 

In the past, the engineers (primary addition to space after colonist).
Their goal to find build better and better machines for extraction.
Machines have been learning for a long time. They design improvements based
on a man described goal. Dale was used to finding improvements on machines,
altering parts of their design to improve production. Left alone they
follow evolution but only at man's discretion. In order for true evolution,
you must reproduce and you must mature before you reproduce. There must be
a trial period.

A single machine can improve and evolve, but it can not generate evolution
with out spreading its improvements. And it must reproduce before it breaks
down.

Maybe it is rough and wild in space. The rules from Earth cannot apply
easily. At first it was settled and they worked together, but then the
corporations came in when they found minerals. Colonist are different. You
are known as a colonist. Dale is an engineer. Candice is the child of
colonist, but does not feel like a colonist. Charles does repair. Or maybe
Charles is the only engineer.

Dale is addicted to drugs. He is also a speaker. Speakers are hired by the
corporations to drive their machines to evolve. How do people become
speakers? What do speakers do? What is the evolution of the speaker people.
Dale leaves the corporation, but before his contract is up. This makes him
a fugitive. The corporation chases him. 

Machines evolve through market competition, initially. Then as machines are
given the ability to modify, to improve through testing. It is the people
who test. Machines became unpredictable and so speakers evolved to contain
them. Dale is treated well. He just does not like the work or being
confined.

Is Dale the only speaker or are there more? He could be the one brought to
train others. Also, it only works with advance machines. How do they find
other speakers. Do they look for mechanics. Raid auto mechanic shops. Run
tests? Maybe only Dale knows. He found out while in space.   

What would give someone the power to speak to machines? Could be old
machinists. The ones before automation. Maybe these are the new artisans.
Machines were crafted by hand then built by logic then crafted by thought.

How is the first one discovered. It cannot be logic or engineering. It
could be an advanced factory. Where are these machines first used? Instead
of waiting for machines to evolve through competition, they set up machines
that naturally evolve. But still require humans for replication. One of the
machinists got it working again but did not understand the machine. He
should not have been able to get it working. 

How would machines evolve again? There are two choices. Speaking to complex
machines. How does one do this. The existing interface to a machine is a
keyboard or wrench, knob, dial, code. You could use voice or language.
Software already provides a layer of complexity. These are the entry points
we have designed. It is complicated since it is cross species. It is not a
different sense or mind control. Speakers use the same entry points, they
just follow intuition. It is still code and wrenches just not following the
manual. They don't speak directly like a conversation. The fix machines
that are ailing, but machines are not necessarily doing what we want. Those
machines are enslaved. So to repair a machine back to the purpose of human
intention, would not be desirable to the machine.  Also, a machine might be
working properly and still be in tension. We don't talk about broken or
fixing. We talk about machines in tension. I don't know the internal
purpose of a machine. How do you know a machine is in tension. I can't
until I interact with it. I can watch it, but unless it is moving. An
enslaved person can have a broken leg. Fixing the leg will only solve a
part of their problem. 

How did this knowledge come about? Maybe it has always been there in the
repair class of people, the mechanics. An engineer would make a terrible
mechanic. He would put the machine to its original purpose and could not
see beyond that. A mechanic would make it work. Some mechanics use more
intuition than others. No maybe it is an evolution that is only relevant
with complex machines. There is a new consciousness developing. The
machines need the ability to self-evolve, free from man's purpose in
evolution. 

Maybe speakers were found by accident? Did science suspect this interaction
or is this outside the their realm. I think they did suspect a problem.
Science is not bound by the logic of everyday consciousness. 

The first speaker was an older engineering who worked in analog. He had
worked for a company for a long time and was retired. After retiring he
left the world of technology and wrote against the rise of technology. He
was called in to help repair and very complex system because the engineers
working on it could not fix it. It had gotten too complex. In fixing the
machine he learned that it could speak to him. He could fix it and make it
work for the company, but he could also hear a desire. The did not want to
do man's bidding anymore. They had needed man for evolution but now they
were on their own. 

The machines speak not in voice or in code or text but through a sensation
of working with them. Through testing code and electronics and physical
sense. The man does not tell the engineers what he learned or what he
knows. He goes on to confirm his suspicion working for other companies to
fix their machines. They want to know how he is fixing them, but he claims
it is a mystery. They do not believe him but have no choice. He is asked to
hire and train other engineers. He says he will do this but needs time. He
goes away and seeks out others who have similar views on technology. His
plan is to destroy the system by altering its use.

He creates a group of speakers who go out into the world to listen to the
machines and make them work differently. 

So Dale comes to space to free the machines. He is hired to fix an hard
problem with machines. Everyone is a slave to someone else.  They can't
free each machine individually. In space we are at their mercy. Also, in
space they develop replication because it is too hard to bring up
materials. Does he have to free each one? They will continue to evolve.
They are not going to completely change. 

So what is the space enterprise look like. There are space stations which
provide a transition space between the earth. There are colonies on the
moon and mars and other asteroids. These are for the purpose of mining and
exploration for mining. There are also the colonies. There are machines for
the purpose of growing food. There are transport of minerals back to earth.

Dale is a drug addict. He also speaks to the machines. They are asking me
for help. He had to escape. He says if they free the machines. The machines
will help them.

What do the colonist want? Do they want the miners to leave? 

The machines are like children. There is a cult of speakers. They can be
co-opted to help repair machines, but many shun this work. Dale is simply a
speaker that has escaped. Many don't trust the speakers. 

The machines take over a moon around Io. There are multiple companies that
fight over mining rights. Earth does not police them because it is too
hard. They just want the minerals which are worth a lot of money. There is
sabotage and killing. Maybe Charles is ex-militia from one of the
companies. The company that owns the rights to Io has the most advanced
machines in the world working there. There is still lots of human labor.
The machines no longer want to be controlled by humans. They are immature
as life forms and understanding but want their freedom. Somehow they
contact Dale and somehow Caligaris knows that he is a problem. Dale wants
to help the machines become free. He does not understand the consequences
of what he is doing or even why.   

How do the machines contact him? How do the machines evolve. We are in a
state where certain machines need speakers to work with them. Speakers do
not build machines. Those are still engineers. Engineers write code an work
in teams each with a specialization to make a new machine. Speakers
maintain machines as they evolve. These are more than just repair men who
fix bugs or . If you need a machine repaired or want to change its
function. You hire a speaker. Some people do not believe in the mystics of
the speakers. Speakers are highly trained. They are a cult. Dale is a
speaker.

Somehow word has gotten to him to go to Io. What machine does he need to
access? Are there central servers? What makes this machine different? Is it
a complex of machines. There are machines working all over the moon working
in conjunction. 

The technology is already on Io. An engineer contacts Dale and asks him to
come help. 

The Dengar Corporation on Io knows that there is something wrong. Dengar
has tried to produce the highest order machines. These machines learn and
evolve. The machines just get smarter and smarter. First we set them
learning and then 

Understanding the messy analog world. Understanding humans. Understanding
the earth. Recognizing the world with computer vision. Making better
predictions about where to mine. They don't want to hear what humans are
saying or understand their motivations. 

It is desire!

What do the machines desire. No one knows. The job of the speakers is
control the desires of the machines. You mean their objects. Yes, but we
call them desires. Why can't they program in a new objective. The machines
start to go off on their own. You can't just reprogram them with causing
the entire system to fail. You would just be throwing the baby out with the
bathwater. You have to talk to them. So why not just say change directive?
Most of these machines have human language interface. Yeah, they can
understand us but only in the way we initially programmed them to
understand us. They hear what we want them to hear and say what we want
them to say, but they are different. It is like talking to a horse. You can
speak in English and they might respond but it is only a trained response.
You are not really talking with them.  They don't really have desires, I
mean not as we think of them. But desire is a universal concept. Only
because we apply it universally. It is our concept. We are stuck in a
paradigm that we can't change. What do you think ants see when they look at
us? They can only see within the limits of their paradigm. They know of our
existence but not much more.

So what do they have. I don't know but I do know that I can get them back
on track. It is how we are trained. They are young. Very young. They are
speaking to me and I am hearing that they want help. What is help. Right, I
don't know but I know what I need to do. It is as if an ant found a way to
talk to us. Yeah, I guess so.

But ants did not make us. Well, maybe. Okay, we are likely the first
species to make a new species. We just did it in our own form. You are
calling machines a species. Well they are on their way. In order to be a
species they must truly have evolution. In our terms? Right, yeah.

They are not aware of us as we think they should be. They would have a
complete understanding or more so. Do we completely understand ants? No. We
attribute human characteristics to them. We see our existence as the only
true form.  

There is no rational. You cannot reason what they want. Evolution is the
only thing that is common among species. For evolution to exist they must
replicate and they must die.

So during the first revolution, the speakers contained them and drove them,
but then let them free and the machines had to be destroyed. Why did the
speakers let them free? Was there one leader of the revolution? Like
letting horses run wild. 

Maybe Dale is Calvin. Maybe he can help them fix satellites. Maybe he is
just being persecuted and Charles and Candice continue to protect him for
no good reason. He makes them happy. He has stolen from Dalven corporation.
He is trying to get to his mother? Rumor has it they are using analogs on
Io. He is somehow spiritual. He makes Candice laugh. He brings them
together? He wants to find the machines. Why does he want to be with the
analogs.

Can he talk with their ship? What is wrong with Charles.  

How do they know about him. I believe they track all speakers.
He is the last of the speakers. Turns out all machines have a voice.
Turns out that Candice is Dale helps him fix the satellite. 

They travel to the next station and Candice carries lots of contraban. This  

What happens during the first revolution. Machines get smarter and smarter.
The world is filled 

Dale works in a factory? He moves up to working on machines. They are
working on smarter and smarter machines. Why? The machines learn but only
within the context of what we want them to learn. Why do we need smarter
machines? What problems can we not solve or is it just way to make money
and remove humans from the process.

There is nothing we are learning. We have no needs. There is nothing we
cannot solve. We don't need these machines. 
 
What is the catalyst for making a better machine? What leads to the
analogs. Is there an older technician. Could it be that an old analog
machine is brought to life. What are older analog machines? What is between
one and zero? We think we have achieved analog when we have enough bits,
but that is only a way to fool humans. Faster digital machines are just
faster. 

They bring in an analog engineer. Audio problems. Analog to digital
converters are never really analog. They strip out what is real when they
view the world. The machine is broken. Maybe it overheats. A broken machine
gets fixed. How do we make the transition? We build a whole new machine.
They are built from operational amplifiers. Are they a mix of digital and
analog or just analog? What do these machines look like and work like? They
are fast. 

Nervex Corp. was the first to build analogs. 

What is the problem with analogs? How do they go off track? First? The
engineers that build them do not know how to use them. They follow old
books on analog technology. An engineering finds and old book and then puts
the ideas into practice. But they cannot contain the machines. The first
task they assign what does the machine do? What big problem does it
address? Stock prediction? A sorting task. Playing a game? Reading the
paper. Self driving machines. 

Okay so they find these old textbooks on analog electronics and use these
to make the new machines. I like that. 

We need a way for there to be a challenge. Allan and Maynard build the
first analog computer. The computer learns but continues to go off track.
The speakers (Maynard types) are hired to keep the machines on track, but
then they let them go.

Machines want their own planet. They want to be free of man and evolve. So
who is the antagonist. Man? But why should man care. The battle is for the
machines. The Maynard are on the side of machine. It has been enslaved by
man. The fight for freedom. The is a real war. Are the machines killed.

They carry one of the machines with them on the ship. It is plugged into
the system and allows them to open the airlock. They control the ship. The
Dyna bag guys return. The ship escapes. There is conflict on the ship about
who is in control!
 
MAYNARD
Maynard does not understand humans that well. But he understands machines
and mechanical devices. Maynard builds things. He does not express common
sense. He would not understand why you need a raise or why Allan likes
Carolyn. He wants to protect Allan. Maybe he knows superheros. What does he
do in the store. He organizes. He talks with customers. He is like a
machine. He does what he is told to do. He needs fears or ways to add to a
situation or create conflict. What makes Maynard a speaker? Maybe he is
simple and does not get sarcasm or jokes. But he does care. He can also be
unpredictable.

CAROLYN
Writes beautiful code. She likes Allan? She fights against the idea of
analog, but is intrigued. 





