SUPERHERO 
	
"You could you at least put a towel on." "I have a towel on." "Being on top
of a towel does not count." "Don't be such a prude. Man's body is
beautiful. At least mine is." 

Adam Persopolis lay on a plush pile rug basking in the early morning sun as
it came low through the kitchen widow, the square panes outlined diagonally
across his naked back. And it was true, his body was beautiful.  

Resting on his forearms he read the Saturday morning paper. Clay stood
behind him trying to decide if he should just leave. It was a thought that
periodically ran through his head and involved a not so elaborate scenario
about where he would go, but he never left. Clay turned and made his way to
the kitchen to make coffee. Partially blocking the sun, he gathered some of
the warmth for himself.

"Any news?" he asked making conversation. "The Mayor is still fighting with
the teachers union." Adam responded. Clay blew cool air across the top of
his cup of coffee and tried to keep his eyes from landing on Adam's naked
backside. "It looks like Lawson properties is planning on buying the entire
block on Church and Willow." Adam continued to read from the paper.  "Hmm,
I had heard that." Clay said.

For a few minutes, neither of them spoke. "Are you going to lie there all
day?" Clay asked. "I can't read the paper?" Adam sighed. Clay looked around
the room. Nothing had been put away from last night. He eyed a half-empty
bottle of vodka on the dinning room table. "We should get out." Clay said
closing his eyes. "Fine." Adam breathed out slowly "We'll go to the Tavern
for lunch."

Adam and Clay had known each other since college and had lived together
since they were in their twenties. Their home was a small and nondescript
brick building in an underused section of the city set among other small
and nondescript brick buildings. The original purpose of their building was
unclear, but over the past century it had housed a variety of small
industry that had come into and gone out of fashion, the last one being
typewriter sales and repair.  

They lived primarily on the second of the two floors. It was mostly open
space with their bedrooms off to one side.  The open space included a
kitchen, dining and living area delineated only by the appropriate
furniture for each space. A skylight kept the space bright throughout the
day. It was Clay who had directed the renovation of the space from a warren
of small offices. 

A little after noon, Adam and Clay sat across a Formica table in a tall
backed and dimly lit booth.  Stephanie, a woman who looked to be well into
her seventies approached to take their order. A small paper hat sat neatly
on a wavy pile of well coiffed white hair. She wore a light pink uniform
bordered with starched white collar and cuffs. A pleated white apron was
tied about her waist. It was the same uniform she had worn for more than a
dozen years and she still filled it well. But as she stood at their table
she stooped slightly, as if to suggest a change in trajectory.  
	
She had worked at the tavern since Adam and Clay first started going there
and probably long before. Recognizing them she gave them a hearty "Hi
fellas" adding that she had not seen them for a couple of weeks. She took
their orders with the same professional competence that she had always
shown, but the rhythm of her performance was slightly stilted giving a
sense that she had begun relying more on patterns of habit than inspiration
to get through the day.  

Adam noticed her counterpart, a boy still in college and doing his homework
at the bar between waiting on tables. Behind the bar was Francis, who had
owned the tavern for the past fifteen years and had worked there for ten
years before that. 

Seeing Adam and Clay, he came out from behind the bar where he still worked
serving drinks seven days a week.  As he approached, he wiped his hands on
an apron that looked dirty enough to make the act a zero-sum affair. In his
late fifties, he combed his thin hair over a bald pate.  He sat down
heavily in the booth next to Clay and when asked how things were going gave
his usual answer sighing "Well, I seem to be breaking even." But there was
nothing in his manner or the tavern to suggest that he aspired to anything
more.  "I have heard a rumor that Lawson Properties is buying the
building." Adam said. "Yeah, I heard that as well. I got nothing against
them. Doesn't matter too much to me who I pay the rent check to." "But what
if they ask for more rent?" asked Clay.  "How can they?" responded Francis.
"There is no way I can afford to pay any more than I do. Like trying to get
blood from a stone." He laughed.  Francis found comfort in his logic and
Adam and Clay did not have the heart to challenge him.  Francis returned to
the bar. 
	
Adam stared off quietly into the tavern holding a martini poised above the
table in his heavy almost muscular hands. Hands that looked like they had
been forged from years of labor.  The sort of hands that Clay's own father
had come by honestly, but here they were on Adam who spent his days typing
stories for a local magazine. Clay admired them, clean and manicured and
tucked gently into starched white cuffs wrapped in fine tweed sleeves.
Clay's own hands were long and thin like his mother's.  
	
Leaving the tavern they walked to the end of the block and stood on the
corner caught in a moment of mutual and unspoken indecision about what to
do with the rest of the day. Clay with a magazine he had purchased tucked
under his arm watched a young mother hustling her reluctant son along the
street.  Adam watched a lone seagull flying overhead, blown in from the
shore.  Its cry out of place over the rumble of buses and honking horns.
When too much time had passed, they agreed to head home.  As they made
their way out of the square and down Wilson Ave., they passed the
laundromats and liquors stores that continued to serve as junctions of
communal life.

Reaching the corner of large a construction site, they stopped waiting to
pass a line of striking workers that had narrowed the sidewalk ahead. Next
to them a worker leaned against the wall, an unlit cigarette hung from his
mouth.  He patted his pockets in search of a light.  "Hey buddy" he
addressed Adam, "got a match?" "Sure." Adam responded as he fetched a
silver lighter from his breast pocket and leaned over to light the man's
cigarette.  "What's up?" Adam nodded toward the men marching.  "Last week
one of the guys got burned on the job and now Mayfair Construction is
refusing to pay his hospital bills," he said between puffs of smoke. "The
only reason he got burned was because a worn out gas line caught fire on
the welder which he told them needed to be replaced. Mayflower's been
cutting corners since we started this project. It was only a matter of time
before someone got seriously hurt." Clay looked at the banners on the fence
surrounding the construction site.  One was for Mayfair Construction and
the other in equally large letters advertised Lawson Properties. "What do
you know about Lawson Properties?" Clay asked the worker. "Not much except
that I hear they got big plans for Westside. We're hoping to start there
after this job ends." "Westside? Huh?" Clay responded. "I thought they only
built expensive apartments and offices." "Don't ask me. I just build the
buildings." "Whose up there now?" Adam asked looking up at the men who
crawled about on the giant skeleton of iron girders.  "Scabs" the worker
pointed with his cigarette. "and I can tell you they have no idea what they
are doing." 

Leaving the man they made their way down the block. Just before the end of
the block they heard a cry from above. They looked up to see a section of
scaffolding falling from the fifth floor of the building. Like an insect
its spindly legs reached in vain for purchase until it came crashing into
the pavement below. Where the scaffolding had been they could see a worker
dangling by a rope from the fifth floor of the building.  Instantly, Adam
was gone from Clay's side and there appeared leaping from one floor to the
next on the outside of the building, a man in a costume of tan and black
that fit tightly against his body.  Reaching the fifth floor he pulled the
dangling worker up to safety. A crowd of scabs rushed forward to greet him.
Down below from where Clay stood, the striking workers pointed toward the
man in costume and said "Look its Superman!" 

This was the name he had been given by the public and a direct reference to
the comic book hero with whom he shared some super human abilities. But
Adam was not born on a distant planet nor cast toward Earth moments before
its destruction. He was of the Earth and while there are many stories told
of his origin there is only one true story.  
	
He was born the only son of Sarah and Mitchel Clydesdale in the rural
mining town of Havilah. Mitchel spent his days in the mines and his nights
in the local tavern where he drank till the pain that lived inside of him
could raise no more than a grumble. Sometimes he went home too early, short
of money, and raised holy hell with Sarah who could match him drink for
drink and blow for blow.  

On Sundays, Mitchel went out into the woods to hunt for deer, but shot just
about anything that had the misfortune to cross his path. Hunting was one
of the few things he did well, drunk or sober. One Sunday, a jaguar sat
hidden in rocky outcrop. The jaguar knew not to be out during daylight
hours, but his family was hungry and man left little in the land they now
shared. As the jaguar waited, a deer came into view only 50 yards below. As
he inched forward into the open to prepare his attack, he suddenly saw a
hunter out of the corner of his eye. It was the sort of carelessness that
he typically attributed to man. Mitchel had seen the same deer and now he
saw the jaguar. He turned and shot. Leaping forward the jaguar caught the
bullet in his hind quarters. Mitchel cursed himself for the bad shot.  
	
The jaguar silently made his way home through the woods that he knew he
would never see again. He remained swift and agile but started to feel the
cold of losing blood. He arrived to find his mate and children sleeping
quietly deep in the brush. He gently woke his mate wanting to see her one
last time. Laying next to her and immersed in the soothing rumble of her
purr, he apologized for dying too soon.

The next evening she got up. Her cubs expecting a lesson in hunting were
told they would need to wait alone this evening. She arrived in town in the
quiet of the early morning as men and women lay sleeping under the security
of nothing more than a sheet or blanket.  

Inside the hunter's home a light still burned. The door left half open the
jaguar entered to find the hunter asleep in his chair, the woman lying
uncovered across her bed and the baby quietly whimpering in his crib.  The
smell of the hunter was strong, but stronger was the smell of alcohol and
soiled clothes.  Resting her paws on the arm of his chair she leaned in
close and breathed her moist hot breath into the hunter's face. Opening his
eyes, she bared her teeth and roared. Screaming he threw his hands forward
and pushed helplessly against her heavily muscled shoulders. She gripped
his neck in her jaw and then crushed his spine. He died instantly the
expression of shock still frozen on his face.  She roared again and the
woman stirred. Seeing the jaguar still leaning over her dead husband she
screamed and flung herself toward the crib.  Unable to stand she hung on
the bars and sobbed, "Don't take my baby." As the jaguar came close to her,
she was overwhelmed by the stench of alcohol that leached from the woman's
skin.  The jaguar leaned her paws against the crib and found the boy crying
bruised and sore and lying in his own filth. Disgusted, she leaned her head
over the rails and lifted the boy up by the scruff of his neck. As the boy
felt the jaguar's sharp teeth gently close about his neck, he stopped
crying and made no attempt to resist. Carrying the boy from the house the
jaguar made her way back to her cubs.  

For two years, she raised the boy along with her cubs teaching them to hunt
and survive in the wild and when she had taught them all that she could,
she sent her cubs out on their own. She then led the boy back to town.
Arriving again in the early hours of the morning she left the boy in the
middle of the town square where he sat and amused himself until he was
found just after daybreak.

The boy was adopted by a childless couple, Nicholas and Svetlana Persopolis
who named him Adam.  It was soon apparent that Adam had special powers.  By
an early age he could outrun the squirrels that came into their yard and
could leap into trees more than twice his height.  Worried, his parents
begged him to never reveal his secrets.  The world had taken much from
Nicholas and he was determined it would not take his boy.  

The mining company, for which Nicholas worked, owned the house in which he
lived and the store in which he bought his food, and at the end of each
month after he paid for his house and his food, it left little on his side
of the ledger except for life itself, for which he was still grateful and
which the company would allow him to keep as long it remained useful.  And
when it came time the company took his life as well. Nicholas died slowly
drowning under the soot and ash that filled his lungs and for all of Adam's
powers there was nothing in the world he could do to save him.  

Adam grew tall and handsome and was the fastest boy the town had ever seen.
He broke high school records in both short and long distances as well as in
field events such as long jump and javelin, and for a few years he shined
like hope in the small and smokey town. He ran just fast enough to bring
home the state championship and he ran just fast enough to get a
scholarship to the state college. During the summer before he left, his
mother got sick and died relieving him of the one remaining hold the mining
town had on him, and after he left he never returned.  

Clay watched as Adam leaped down from the building and quickly away into an
alley or backyard. It was up to Clay to fetch his clothes and then find a
place where Adam could change unnoticed before heading home. No matter
where Clay went, Adam would find him.  

They met during their freshman year of college. One night after a party
Clay was walking home across a bridge that connected the two campuses,
alone and drunk. He does not remember walking into the street, but he does
remember Adam coming from out of nowhere and grabbing and lifting him out
of the way of the truck and then with super human speed carrying him over
and off the bridge.  He also remembers walking up in Adam's dorm room and
seeing Adam standing over him looking down. "Where am I?" he asked
cautiously his head feeling disproportionately larger than the rest of his
body, a feeling that was not unfamiliar. "You're safe." Adam smiled. "What
happened?" "I saved your life." "Sorry." Clay said shading the light from
his eyes and then groaning "Why?" "Why?" Adam laughed "Well it seemed worth
saving." "Okay but just this once" Clay said turning his head, adding
"Let's not make a habit of it." Clay, embarrassed tried to get up to leave,
but Adam made him stay.  That morning they ate breakfast together in the
school dinning hall.  

Clay sat across from Adam feeling self conscious. His clothes rumpled and
stained and smelling of beer, feeling like something the cat dragged in. An
expression his mom sometimes used to describe his father after a long night
working under the city streets. Looking down, he pushed his food around on
his plate waiting for his appetite to return. He glanced up, half expecting
Adam to be gone, a figment of his overactive imagination, but there he sat
seeming to be in no rush to be anywhere else.  

"What do you want?" Adam asked leaning forward. "What do you mean?" Clay
responded cautiously.  "I mean what do you want to do...in life." "What do
I want to be?" Clay shrugged. "Well, my father wants me to be an engineer
and...I uh" He stared past Adam at a couple of boys laughing with a girl
near the entrance, "I have not given it thought much beyond that." Adam
shook his head." "No. I mean why were you put here?"  "Why was I put here?"
Clay laughed. "My guess is that whoever put me here did not give it much
thought...or, if he did, he forgot to tell me." "Everyone is here for a
reason." Adam said looking into Clay's eyes. "Everyone? That's a lot of
reasons. I am not sure that many reasons even exist." Clay said avoiding
his stare.  

"I am here to save people." Adam said.  "Have you saved many people?" Clay
asked. "Only one...so far." Adam cocked his head and smiled. "So last
night" Clay fidgeted with a button on his shirt. "What exactly did happen?"
The events of the evening, formed in the haze of intoxication, sat loosely
jumbled in memory and had already begun the process of slowly resolving to
errant permanence. Adam described how Clay had strayed into the path of a
truck and how he had used his super human speed and strength to save him.
He told Clay of finding out at an early age that he was faster and stronger
than other children and then finding out that he was faster and stronger
than anyone. He confessed he knew of no explanation.  

"So you are a superhero." Clay gave a wry smile. "It is why I am here."
Adam returned the smile. For a moment neither of them spoke.  "Does anyone
else know?" Adam shook his head. "Why me?" Adam shrugged his shoulders as
if he truly did not know. "I guess it is just why you are here." "Nice to
know I have a place in the world." Clay basked in the warmth of Adam's
smile.

Clay was the only one of three brothers to attend college. His father had
worked as a plumber for the department of public works making sure that
every day fresh water flowed into the city and every day waste water flowed
out. But he wanted more for Clay.  Clay, unlike his brothers, liked school
and brought home report cards that included As and kind words from his
teachers. His father wanted Clay to be an engineer, to design and build the
sort of machinery he had spent his days repairing.  

A week later, Adam stood on a chair in his dorm room wearing woman's tights
made of thick black wool and an undersized white cotton t-shirt. He struck
a menacing pose as if he were about to slay an evil foe. "You still look
like you are wearing women's underwear...or jumped out of bed and forgot to
put on your pants." Clay grinned. Adam raised one eyebrow and modeled like
Charles Atlas his muscles thick behind the shirt and tights.  "Yes, but am
I beautiful?" He asked. "Maybe we should call you beautiful-man" Clay
smirked.  

Clay's attention turned back to the desk were a dozen comic books lay
featuring Superman, Batman, Captain America and The Flash. Pushing his hand
through his hair he asked "Honestly, do you even need a costume?" "I need a
way to protect my identity." "Why not just get a mask?" "No" Adam shook his
head. "That would look ridiculous." Clay rolled his eyes. "I need a
superhero identity. I can't just be a guy in a mask."

"These aren't real superheros." He pointed to the comic books. "They're
comic book heroes." Clay mused, "Maybe you just want an excuse to wear
tights." 

"Make me a costume." Adam announced from his perch in a mock regal tone.
"Me?" Clay questioned. "I'm just here to help you pick one out." "But
you're an engineer." Adam returned.  "Yeah and not a costume designer."
"Well, I'm not asking you to make a me dress. I am asking you to design a
suit that will enhance my powers. Look at Batman, he has his bat belt
filled with technology and Captain America has his shield.  I want a suit
that will make me faster and stronger that is light and powerful and
smooth." "Listen. I am only freshmen. I don't know how to make anything."
Clay shook his head.  "This is something you can do." Adam persuaded. He
then he raised his arms dramatically as if to the heavens above. "I am your
muse." He spoke in a grand tone. They both laughed.  

Initially, finding people to save proved difficult.  There was, of course,
no lack of people facing various sorts of mortal danger, but most of it was
known and long-term, not the sort of danger that lent itself to a superhero
rescue.  For Adam, the danger needed to be acute and sudden.  For a while
Clay volunteered as a dispatcher for the college crisis hotline center.
After directing an emergency rescue team to a crisis scene, he would try to
reach Adam through the one payphone on their dorm floor.  Though often the
rescue team would have arrived well before Adam could get there and they
were generally far better equipped to deal with the sorts of emergencies
triaged through a college crisis hotline.  Frustrated, Adam spent more than
a few evenings hidden and watching the paramedics or fire crew adeptly
manage the situation.  

Then one evening, due to some confusion regarding the actual location of
the caller, Adam found himself first on the scene. A woman lay unconscious
on the floor of her dorm room, her roommate beside her sobbing.  Adam
quickly picked up the unconscious woman and raced her to the hospital
leaving her in the hands of the emergency room doctors.  The story was
reported but received the dubious headline "Mystery Man Rescues Drunk
Teenage Girl" and read about as credible as a UFO siting. It did not help
Adam's sense of accomplishment that the article also suggested that the
young woman would have likely been better served by a team of qualified
paramedics.  

"There is no way I could have known that she was just drunk." Clay said.
Adam just stared out the window. He leaned back in his chair with his feet
up on the desk in the dorm room they now shared not saying anything. "It is
not like people who call crisis hotlines actually know what is going on
themselves."He paused and then added "Your the one who wanted to be a
superhero anyway." "I am a superhero." Adam stated still not looking at
Clay. "It is why I am here." "Well it is not my fault." Clay responded.
Adam just shook his head quietly.  Adam let his chair land back on its
front legs "Let's get out of here." He said as he jumped up and grabbed his
coat. "I am sure there is a party somewhere waiting for us." He smiled and
clapped Clay on the back.

Over the next month, Clay found and then modified an existing radio so that
it could scan and receive local police and fire broadcast channels. They
spent evenings together listening to the radio for reports of people in
distress. The effort paid off with a few rescues mostly involved carrying
people out of burning buildings, though once from a car before it exploded.
Adam was fast and strong and could leap through flames without getting
burnt.  This was partially due to his speed and partially due to a fire
retardant material that Clay carefully manufactured into his costume.  

Adam began to receive some notoriety for his exploits and was dubbed
Superman by the local press.  Though not all the press he received was
positive. Some fire officials still complained that he often interfered
with their own rescue attempts.  One afternoon late in their junior year as
they both sat in their dorm missing class and nursing hangovers, a report
of a robbery at Porter National Bank came over the scanner. Quickly Adam
suited up and was out the door. 

When he arrived at the scene, the police were already in a standoff with
the robber. A few customers and tellers were still inside the bank.  Adam
approached a police captain whom he had met at the scene of a previous
accident and asked if there was anything he could do. "Well, if it ain't
our local superhero." the captain smiled, his jaw muscles visibly
exercising a wad of gum. "You really faster than a speeding bullet, because
this ain't no fire.  The man inside that bank." He turned his narrow gaze
toward the entrance. "He has a gun." He looked back at Adam giving him time
to think and then added. "I appreciate your offer, but maybe you best leave
this one to us." The captain turned to walk back to his officers.  Adam
hesitated and then followed the captain. Placing his hand on his shoulder,
the captain turned. "Just keep him occupied." Adam said and was gone.

Seconds later, Adam was loping across the intersection toward the side of
the bank. He moved on all fours, quickly and silently. He moved so
gracefully that no one in the crowd noticed him unless they saw a dog or
cat run across the street.  Suddenly Adam appeared at the corner of the
bank, just out of view of the bank robber who now stood at the entrance to
the bank holding a hostage and a gun and shouting demands to the police
officers. A second later Adam leapt across the front of the bank and before
the robber could react, Adam had taken the gun from his hand. He tossed the
gun toward the police. He then turned and caught the man as he tried to run
back into the bank.  Pinning him against the floor, the man looked up at
Adam their faces only inches apart. His breathing heavy. His hair a tangled
mix of grey.  His eyes floating in a pool of fluid.  His cheeks deeply
etched with lines from countless expressions of joy and sadness.  His arms
frail and resigned under the layers of coat and jacket and sweater and
shirt. All of the anger Adam had seen in his face moments before was gone
all that was left was fear.  The police rushed in and Adam released the
robber to their custody.  

The next morning, Adam lay on his bed in their dorm room reading the paper.
This time his story had made the front page with the title "Superhero
Thwarts Bank Robbery". There was even a quote from the police captain
thanking him for his courageous work. There was a picture which showed Adam
standing between the bank manager and the police captain. The bank manager
smiling and shaking Adam's hand. Adam tried to remember the picture being
taken, but could only recall flashbulbs and people pulling him this way and
that.  The story went on to describe the robber as vagrant. He had been in
trouble with the law over many years and for various minor crimes. A
representative for the city was quoted as saying it was good that he was
finally off the street.  

"Who did I save?" Adam asked. "What do you mean?" "I mean who did I save?"
Adam put the paper down and rolled on his side resting his head on his arm.
"You saved the people in the bank." "They were in no danger." "How do you
know that?" Clay asked skeptically. "I saw him." Adam shook his head
wearily. "They were in no danger." "You stopped a bank robbery." Clay
suggested.  "I know." Adam responded. "People can't just go around robbing
banks." Clay added. "I am not saying people should rob banks, but I put on
this costume to save people...to do something good in this world." "You
probably saved the manager his job." Clay said half seriously. "Right" Adam
nodded "no one would have blamed him." He turned back to the paper. "It
says here the manager is 36 and lives in Brookside with his family." "What
is wrong with that?" asked Clay. "What does it say about the robber?" Adam
responded "They don't mention his age." Adam turned back to the picture in
the paper.  "...or anything about him. He is just..." his voice got quiet,
"just vagrant." 

Adam then sat up in his cot, leaning against the wall. "What I saved was
the bank. I saved the bankers their money." "Banks are not necessarily
bad." said Clay. "They are not necessarily good either. The mayor wants me
to accept an honor." "I saw that." "The bank wants to offer me a reward."
"Yeah, I saw that too." 

Clay and Adam continued getting better at finding people in distress,
though sometimes it was just a matter of being in the right place at the
right time. But Adam never felt satisfied. It is not that he didn't enjoy
rescuing people, but he never felt he was doing much more than could be
accomplished by well-trained police or firefighters.  If he really was a
superhero, where were the super villains, like the kind he read about in
comic books, the ones who ransomed whole cities for greed, wealth and
power?  

"Here" Clay handed Adam his shirt and pants. Adam quietly dressed. "What's
wrong?" Clay asked. "I saved a guy that was only in danger because of
Mayfair." "According to one worker." responded Clay. "Yes, but they are all
on strike." "True, but what could you do" Clay shrugged. "let him fall?"
"No, but I am just saving Mayfair from their own mess and then someone else
gets hurt and then what do I do?" "Maybe the problem is too big for a
superhero." said Clay. Adam did not respond as they headed out to the
street to make their way home.  

The next day Adam headed down to City Hall to learn more about Lawson
Properties. He was curious if what the worker said about the big plans for
Westside were true. Lawson already owned a lot of the city and if the plans
for Westside were true it might make for an good article. Looking at the
records for sales in Westside over the past year, Adam found that Lawson
had purchased more than a few properties. This alone was not remarkable,
but he also noticed that the sale prices seemed low even for Westside and
that many of the sales listed Porter National Bank as the seller.  Adam had
a friend who worked in the planning department, so he decided to stop by
and see if she could provide him with some more information.  

"Adam. To what do I owe the pleasure?" Alison smiled from her cubicle. "I
need some information." "You do huh." She twirled a pencil in her fingers
as she held Adam for a moment in her gaze.  "So, what is it?" "I am looking
for some information about Lawson Properties." "The developer" Alison
mused, "I only know that they own a lot of the city." "What about in
Westside?" "Westside? Westside seems kinda low-rent for them. What is this
about?" "A lot of their recent sales there appear to be foreclosures and I
have heard a rumor that they have big plans for that side of city." "Well,
I have not heard anything about that." Alison paused as she continued to
twirl her pencil. "How important is this?" she asked.  "Its for an
article." Adam confessed.  "I see" Alison said getting up from her chair.
"Let's go talk to Jacob.  If anyone knows what is going upstairs" she
motioned with her head implying the mayor's office. "It will be Jacob." 

Adam followed her to a small corner office.  "Westside?" Jacob said leaning
back in his chair and brushing ash that had fallen from his cigar and onto
his shirt "Yeah, Lawson is trying to buy the whole thing." "All of
Westside?" asked Adam. "Yup, all 46 acres, at least that is what I hear."
"Why?" asked Adam. "Why do developers buy anything?" "But Westside is a...
it's a slum." "Westside is only a slum if it exists.  Erase Westside and
you erase the slum. He can rebrand it how ever he wants." He paused to look
out at the city from a small cloudy window behind his cramped desk. "And
anyway" he turned back to Adam. "Westside is not a slum.  I grew up there."

"But buying an entire section of a city no matter how...low-rent, would
cost a fortune." "Not if you are clever...and greedy." Jacob grinned as he
leaned back in his chair.  "How do you mean?" "The city starts to condemn
properties because of fire codes or whatever." he waved his hand depositing
cigar ash loosely behind him. "Once that happens the city is automatically
entitled to collect the rent from the property. The owner can't afford to
keep the building, so he sells for whatever he can get." He paused leaning
forward and resting his arms on his desk. "That is if he is lucky. A lot of
properties get foreclosed." 

"Is this legal?" asked Adam.  "Legal?" Jacob laughed. "It is not only legal
is it mandated under the Federal Housing Act of 1954. Raze the old
neighborhoods and replace them with the modern world.  You gotta wonder who
sponsored that bill." he said shaking his head.  "But why would the city
agree to condemn buildings on behalf of Lawson." "The housing act provides
financial incentives for this kind of work and besides who knows what other
sorts of incentives are involved." Jacob looked up and shook his head.
"All, I can say is I didn't vote for him. And just to be clear," He
confided. "this is off the record. You didn't hear it from me."

On the way back to her cubicle, a colleague of Alison's smiled approvingly
as they passed.  It was a smile Adam had seen before. And it was true. They
looked good together. At least, that was what everyone said.  They had
dated for a couple of years after college.  They had a lot in common. Both
enjoyed sports. Like him, she had played sports in college, volleyball and
had come from a small rural town on scholarship. But then it all ended.
Adam couldn't say why, but it did and it was his decision.  

"Well, thanks." Adam said, "I really appreciate the help." Alison looked at
him. She loved the way his mouth turned up slightly at the corners. It left
the hint of a grin on his face no matter what mood he tried to express.
"How are you doing?" She asked with genuine concern.  "Fine." "Still
writing for The Prospect?" "Yeah." "How is Clay doing?" "He is good." "He's
still putting up with you?" she smiled.  "Yeah, I guess." he said "I'll
call you." he added wanting to leave. "You don't need to." she smiled
confidently. He allowed a kiss on his cheek before he left.  

That night Clay arrived home late from work to find Adam draped across a
living room chair holding an empty glass in his hand with a half empty
bottle on the floor next to him.  "You're late." he slurred. "Yes." Clay
said as he hung up his coat. "We had a project proposal that had to get out
tonight." Turning back he added "And you're drunk." "Not quite." Adam
wagged his finger. "Get me a martini." he raised his now empty glass. "You
can get it yourself." Clay responded as he walked toward the kitchen not
looking at Adam.  Adam's eyes followed Clay across the room "Aren't you
supposed to take care of me?" he said imperiously. "Isn't that what
sidekicks are for, my Robin, my Bucky Barnes, ...to fetch me my drinks? Fix
me a drink." he repeated with a regal wave of his hand.  Clay turned to
face him "Go fuck yourself." he said not hiding his anger. "Believe me I
have tried." Adam laughed throwing his head back. "Why do you always say
that?" Clay narrowed his gaze "It's not funny." "Why do you always tell me
to go fuck myself?" Adam responded with a mock innocence.

Clay quietly made himself a sandwich. "Alison says hi." Adam called from
his chair.  "Alison." Clay thought to himself. "If I had come home earlier
this would not have happened or, at least, we would be drunk together." He
thought. He put his sandwich on a plate and went to his room.  

"They are trying to erase an entire section of town." Adam looked at Clay
from across the table while he sipped his morning coffee. "Who?" "The city,
MayFair, Lawson Properties, whoever can make any money." "Well, it's a
slum." Clay said watching the butter melt as he spread it on his toast.
"Maybe it's for the better." he added. "It's a slum where people live."
Adam said. "It's their home.  Besides how do you know it is a slum?" Adam
challenged. "I don't." Clay shrugged, "it is just what everyone says.
Besides what can we do about it?" "We can save it. We can save the entire
section of town.  Thousands of families live there." "How?" "I don't know."
Adam looked past Clay for a moment. "But have to do something." 

"Lets go there." Adam suggested "Where?" "Westside." "Tonight?" "Sure."
"Seems like a long way to go just to get drunk. Besides it is not safe. At
least, that is what I have heard." "Don't worry, I'll protect you." Adam
laughed clapping Clay on the shoulder from across the table.  

Westside was across the river and a short walk from where the train left
them off in mid-town.  It was bordered by Claremont Ave., a busy street
that cut across the city. Crossing the street, a woman appeared to shout at
them from a second story window, but they could not hear what she said over
the noise of traffic. Turning into the neighborhood they passed an alley.
Inside the dark kids were shouting.  A baseball came flying toward them,
headed well over their heads. Adam jumped quickly and far too high. As he
caught the ball, the kids in the alley all stopped for a moment watching
Adam as he floated impossibly in the air. When he landed they all whopped
and hollered with glee, still young enough to welcome miracles into their
world.  

They passed markets and barbershops and newsstands and theaters all very
much alive among a few buildings that had already been razed or boarded up.
They entered a tavern under a small unlit sign and took seats at the bar.
Adam got the attention of the bartender and ordered two martinis.
"Martinis?" said an older man sitting next to Adam to no one but the bar
itself.  "I think you boys are on the wrong side of town." his words slowly
stumbling over each other on their way to the end of his sentence.  "Oh,
hold on" he held up one hand to stop himself.  "If you kids just sit and
wait here" he paused to steady his thoughts. "in a short while you and your
little friend can order as many martinis as you like." He then toasted
himself and took another sip of whatever liquor the bartender had found to
fill his glass that evening.  

A younger man sitting next to him leaned forward and grinned, "Don't mind
my friend here, he has had a few too many and is...uh, a bit suspicious of
people in fancy suits. He wonders what they did to get those fancy suits."
Adam smiled, "My name is Adam.  I write for a living and my friend Clay is
an engineer." "Nice to meet you Adam and Clay. My name's Pete.  I'm in
construction...I'm a construction worker." he laughed.  The older man
sitting between them picked up his drink and moved to a table by himself.

"Do you know anything about Lawson Properties?" Adam asked. "Lawson, sure,
I work for them.  Well I work for Mayfair which works for Lawson." "Has
anyone mentioned their plans for Westside?" "Their plans for Westside?" He
shook his head. "Lawson builds condominiums, luxury condominiums, at least
that is what they put on the banner. I guess you can call anything luxury."
He added talking more to himself, turning back to Adam "I am working on one
of their skyscrapers in midtown right now." He pointed in the general
direction of midtown.  "Lawson sure as hell ain't going to put one of those
in Westside." he took another drink.  

"Well, the rumor is that he wants to buy Westside, all of it." "Ha, and
what of it?" Pete signaled the bar tender to fill his glass.  "What of it?
You and all your friends here will no longer have a place to live.
Everything you see will be gone." "That is true no matter what Lawson
does." Peter said quietly looking at the dimly lit shelf of bottles behind
the bar, turning back to Adam "So what brings you two here? You and your
little friend have come to save us...our pour benighted souls." He raised
his glass and sang "Go tell to souls benighted of the Lord who came, speak
his name and love proclaim." and then by way of explanation. "I used to
sing in the church choir before my mom kicked my dad out of the house and I
found better things to do." "Your friend seems worried." Adam pointed to
the old man who now sat at a table by himself.  "My friend is a drunk. He
also worries about little green men hiding in the shadows." 

"Why don't you talk to the Mayor." Pete suggested. "The Mayor?" "The Mayor
of Westside, Joe Lee. Go get him riled up." 

But before Adam had a chance to find out more about Joe Lee, a young woman
sidled up to Pete and leaned on his shoulder.  "Hey, Pete who's your good
looking friend." Her voice deep and prematurely rough, her chin resting in
the crook of her arm. "Adam here is a writer and his friend Clay is the
engineer. Benny is my girlfriend." "Only as long your buying the drinks,
honey." Pete motioned them all to a table where two girls, friends of Pete
and Benny, where already sitting.  

"Adam here is a hero." Pete said after introductions. "He wants to save all
of Westside." He added with dramatic wave of his hand. "Save it for what?"
Jackie, one of the young women at the table, sneered. "I'm getting out of
here as soon as I can." said the other one, her voice high and nasal. Then
smiling coyly at Adam and Clay, she added "How about you fellows take me
with you back to wherever you came from?" "Where are you from anyway?"
asked Jackie.  "Brookside." said Adam.  "College kids eh." "We both went to
state," Adam acknowledged. "I went there once myself" the other girl
squeaked "but those boys weren't so nice as they looked...are you nice?"
she directed her question to Adam. Adam laughed and looked at Clay "What do
you think?" "Who's he?" Jackie motioned toward Clay. "Your friend or your
brother?" "He's a friend. We share an apartment." "He doesn't say much, but
he's kinda cute.  I can see why you keep him around."  

By the time they woke the next day, the sun was already on the wane.  Like
the hand of a clock it had slowly made is way around the room till it
landed on Clay where he had collapsed on the couch still fully dressed in
the early hours of the morning. "A lovely people," he moaned as he made a
feeble attempt to raise his head and look around to see if any of them had
followed him home. "I think the redhead really liked you," responded Adam
who had been sitting quietly awake in the living room chair for the past
half an hour staring at the ceiling. "That's unfortunate." responded Clay.  

"We need to find someone in the community that can help us." Adam
contemplated still examining the ceiling. "You heard them, those people
don't care.  They don't even want to be saved." responded Clay. "But they
are losing their homes." Adam said. "They don't care. I don't think they
even like it there." "We talked with four drunks." Adam countered "Five,
you forgot the old guy at the bar." Clay reminded him. "Yes, but he
actually cared." "Right" Said Clay, who had finally made it to standing
position "One of out five drunks recommends saving Westside.  That will
make a wonderful headline." 

"Joe Lee." Adam said as his attention finally shifted from the ceiling to
watching Clay pour his first coffee of the day.  "Yes. The mayor. I
remember." Clay smirked. "I think we should talk to him." "Well you are on
your own. I can't miss another day of work." 

The next day Adam entered The Gert Street Bookstore in Westside. The kid
sitting behind cash register did not look up from her book. Her feet rested
comfortably on the counter. Adam waited patiently until finally the girl's
eyes slowly drifted over the top of her book and she asked, "May I help
you." "I am looking for Joe Lee." "Joe" she shouted across the room.  None
of the customers browsing in the shop seemed to take notice. "Joe" she
yelled louder, still not moving from her perch.  "What is it?" came a voice
equally loud from a separate room at the corner of the store.  "Someone is
here to see you." she shouted back. "Who is it?" he shouted back. "I don't
know." she returned. Adam noticed the hint of a smile had formed on the
girl's face.  "What?" shouted Joe. It was a test of wills in which the
stamina of youth had prevailed as Joe poked he head around the corner to
look for the person who had come to find him. Not recognizing Adam he
ducked back in the room for a moment and then waved Adam over. 

"I don't want to interrupt." Adam said as two women and a man got up to
leave the room. "No, no, we were just finishing up." He pointed Adam to a
chair "So how can I help you?" "Pete Konlasky suggested that I speak with
you." "Pete." He laughed.  "How do you know Pete." "I don't really. I just
met him in a bar." "Right." Joe snorted.  "So why does Pete think I can
help you?" "Actually I am hoping to help you." "Yeah?" Joe raised his
eyebrows. "I have heard from a friend in city hall that there is a plan to
tear down Westside...and replace it with luxury condominiums." "You said
tear down Westside. All of Westside?" Joe ran his hand through a long
strands of grey hair and too long for Adam's taste. "All 46 acres." he
confirmed. "Who told you this?" Adam hesitated "I am not sure I can say."
"How...how are they planning to this?" Joe reached back to push the door
behind him closed.  "The City is going to condemn the buildings and then
allow Lawson Properties to buy them cheap." "Right." Joe nodded.  "A few
buildings over on Brompton got condemned last year, but they were already
vacant so I did not take much notice." He rubbed his hand over the stubble
on his cheek.  "I did hear a rumor though about Lawson buying properties."
"How certain are you about your information?" Joe asked. "My friend works
in City Hall and is close the Mayor. I think it is pretty certain." "Can I
talk to your friend?" "I'll ask and let you know." 

"Yes.  The city, working with Lawson, is planning to raze all of Westside."
Jacob confirmed Joe's question. "Do you know how many families live there?"
Joe asked rhetorically. "Yeah, I do." responded Jacob. "2700." "How many
apartments do they plan to build on this land?" "The number I heard was
470." Jacob leaned back in his chair and pressed his lips against the
steeple of a church he had made with his hands. "There will be five
residential high rise complexes designed exclusively for upper middle class
residents. They plan to replace the entire area with eight superblocks." "I
still don't see how they can do this." "They've done it in other cities and
they'll do it here." Joe shook his head. "If they can't convince the owners
to sell, they just condemn the buildings." "How?" "They claim the streets
are too narrow...a fire hazard" he waved the cigarette he was smoking.
"poor foundations...whatever. They'll think of something. It is all part of
urban renewal." 

Joe Lee was born in Westside. His father was born in Westside. And it was
run down. There were no fancy hotels or bars or apartments. And on a hot
summer day, you could smell the sewage that passed under Main Street in
pipes that remained in permanent disrepair.  He had been married in
Westside and his wife had died there. And he planned to die there as well.  

For the next six weeks, he organized community meetings. He mimeographed
flyers and had them pasted all over the city. He wrote editorials for the
city paper. He met with the head of the city redevelopment authority and
then the mayor. But the mayor would not budge.

"What are we going to do? If this protest starts to grow..." Charles Lawson
said rubbing his forehead and looking distressed. "Listen, all this means
is that we have to move more quickly, before they can gather more support."
Marty Driscoll, the Mayor's Chief of Staff reassured Lawson. "These people
don't even know what is good for them." complained the mayor. "I don't know
why they want to keep living...living in that shithole." He was now
standing behind his desk looking out the window. "Once this is over they
will be thanking me." He turned back to face Lawson who sat next to Elliot
Schwab, Lawson's director of operations. "We are negotiating right now on
nine more buildings. These owners want to sell. It is just a matter of
price." Elliot said. "We condemned five of those buildings." Marty
addressed the Mayor.  

"A couple of saps." Charles said to Elliot after the elevator doors closed.
"They are getting paid." Elliot reminded him. "He is getting paid. I don't
know what sort of deal he cut with Marty." Charles responded. "But if he
was smart, he would put the responsibility for this project on us...and the
bad press. And he is not smart." "Well, I guess he wants to help." Elliot
shrugged. "He wants to help us, but what about the people of Westside?"
Charles asked. "You're not complaining are you?" Elliot asked. "No."
Charles laughed. "But it's just...it's pathetic." He said adding "He is
just typical politician, insecure and wanting approval. And I've just
convinced him that my approval is more important to him than anything
else." 

Two weeks after they first met, Adam and Clay sat with Joe and a few
organizers including Pete in back room of the book store. "Three buildings
on Arrow St. sold just this week." Joe said. "I talked with Paulie, one of
the owners, but he said he could not hang on and didn't want to lose
everything. The other two I don't know." "They are slowly suffocating us."
One of the organizers complained.  "Last week, we had over 200 people at
St.  James. Most who are afraid of losing their homes and some who are
already out and those..." Joe started. "But they don't own the buildings."
Pete interrupted. "We need to get to the owners." he looked around the
room. "Maybe scare 'em a bit." he smiled.  "We can't turn on each other."
Joe spoke directly to Pete. "Our only power is sticking together." "Right."
Pete said. "I am all for sticking together.  Some people just need a little
more encouragement." Joe returned his attention to the group. "Let's focus
on organizing the march planned for Sunday." He said to the group.  Pete
just rolled his eyes to the ceiling.  

"Well you finally have a city in distress." Clay said as he leaned his head
against the window of the bus and watched the patterns his warm breath made
on the cool glass. "Yes, but where is the villain?" asked Adam. "Take your
pick." Clay said still focused on the ethereal shapes that appeared and
disappeared as he breathed in and out. "You got the Mayor, you got Lawson,
possibly even Mayfair." "What am I going to do leap into the Mayor's office
and hold him hostage?" Clay did not respond. "My powers are physical and
they are only justified if used against a direct physical threat." "You
mean dignified." Clay smiled, still not looking at Adam.  Adam did not
respond. They rode the rest of the way home in silence.  

The Monday after the march Adam, Joe and Pete sat around the table in the
back of the bookstore quietly waiting for someone to start the
conversation. Pete scribbled in a notebook. Joe ran his hand through his
thick and unkempt hair.  "This isn't working." Adam said. Both Joe and Pete
gave looks that said, so tell us something we don't know. "As someone said
last week" Adam continued, "they are just suffocating us." "Us?" Pete
looked up from a notebook and grinned, "I didn't know you moved to
Westside...I have to say your timing is terrible." Ignoring Pete's comment,
Adam went on "We need to confront them directly and we need to get them to
confront us. We need to raise the stakes."  "What are you suggesting?"
asked Pete asked and then supplied the answer, "A fight?" "Yes." Said Adam.
"But we need to provoke them into aggression." he leaned forward, his
shoulders hunched and tense. "You mean, we need to do what I have been
saying all along." Pete leaned back in his chair.  "Yeah I guess so."
acknowledged Adam. "So where do you suggest we start?" Adam looked at Pete.

The grin disappeared from Pete's face. "As you know, they are already
starting to tear down two buildings on Walker." Pete paused to make sure
both of them were both listening to him. "I suggest we sabotage the
construction equipment. Really tear it apart. That will get them pissed off
and that will bring in the police." "What then?" Joe sighed pinching the
bridge of his nose under his glasses.  "We defend Westside. We keep the
police out and if things get messy, so bet it.  We are defending our home."
"How many officers do you know that live here?" Joe challenged Pete. "I
know. I will try to talk to them." "How do we defend the city?" Adam asked.
"You really want to be in on this don't you." Pete looked at Adam and still
not sure whether to trust him.  Pete then looked over at Joe "Joe you must
have some maps of the city around this store." Joe, resigned to the new
strategy, slowly got up and went a got a city map.  

"Westside is actually quite defensible." Pete now stood between them and
circled Westside with his finger on the map Joe had laid on the table.
"With the river on one side, there is really only two access points. Here
and here." he pointed "and both of those are on Claremont Ave...  which
carries a lot of traffic and which they are not going to want to shut
down." He paused while they all looked at the map. "I can be ready by
Thursday night." he looked up at both of them. 

"I can't just leave my job for days at a time. I am an engineer.  I can't
just tell my boss I am working on a story." Clay responded.  Adam quietly
continued chopping carrots for a salad while Clay trussed the chicken he
was preparing for their dinner.  Adam then stopped chopping and left the
carrots on the cutting board. He walked over to his chair and sat swirling
his drink. He could feel his hand taught around the glass and knew the he
could crush it if he wanted to. Finally Clay broke the silence. "Why does
it matter if I am there?" "What do you mean?  You have always been there."
Adam shot back. "But you don't need me." Clay put down the mixing bowl he
was holding and stared out at the dark sky. "You just need someone to hold
your clothes and help you dress, while your off saving the world or...or
some cat in a tree." "I found you." Adam forced quietly through clenched
teeth.  "What did you say?" Clay turned sharply to face Adam.  "Nothing."
he said quietly and then added. "I can't do this alone. I have never done
this alone." Clay just looked at Adam for a few moments shaking his head.
He then took a deep breath and said "Okay, just call me when you need me. I
will try to stay near a phone while you are gone." 

"What the hell is going on down there." The mayor shouted into the phone.
"It was just a construction site, Richard. I didn't know it needed to be
defended." Archie Hanscomb, the chief of police responded on the other end
of the line.  "Do you know what's happening?" The Mayor continued to shout.
"This situation is getting out of control and you need to control it."
"We've been there since 4am, since we first got the call." Archie
complained.  "So what are you planning to do?" The Mayor shouted.  "Well,
they've got the entrances barricaded...I thought maybe you might give us a
little guidance." The Mayor put his hand over the receiver "What the hell?"
he exclaimed to Marty, his chief of staff, "He's the chief of police and
he's asking me for advice." 

"Archie, you're the police. Move in and remove the barricades." "You have
to understand Richard" Archie complained. "this could end up a real mess.
Besides some of my guys live in Westside and a lot of my guys have family
there...and well, it is going to make it tough...and if we don't succeed it
will make it a lot worse." The mayor hung up the phone.  

"Fucking Archie can't even defend the city." and then after letting out a
long breath.  "Remind me to replace him when this is all over." He swept
his hand tightly over his balding pate.

Over the next two days there was little progress on either side. The mayor
met with Joe but they could find no common ground. On the second afternoon,
some of the protestors began lobbing bottles and stones at the police. One
of the officers shot a tear gas canister into the crowd, but it was quickly
retrieved and thrown back toward the police. After this, both sides resumed
the stalemate.  

"Richard, this is not looking good." Lawson told the Mayor over the phone.
"I know. I know. But I can't get the police to do anything." "The press
aren't helping matters." Lawson added. "Can't you do something about that?"
"We have a free press." The Mayor sighed. "Archie is never going to do
anything.  I don't know why you have kept him on." Lawson said. "Well it is
kinda late for that now." the Mayor responded. "Have you spoken to the
National Guard?  General...what's his name?" Lawson asked. "General
Banquist, no, I haven't called Charlie." "Not sure what else you can do." 

"Listen Charlie I need your help." "Yeah, I know." General Banquist growled
at the Mayor from across his desk. He could have walked straight out of
Central Casting...or possibly a comic book, Richard thought. A bristle of
white hair and a cigar permanently clenched between his teeth. His chest
decorated with ribbons and medals boasting of battles fought and won.  At
age 64 he still looked like he someone you would want on your side of a
fight.  

The next morning, the National Guard troops began replacing the police
officers across from the barricades. Standing behind the barricade Joe
looked at Pete "What's the plan now? These guys are serious and don't give
a rats ass about Westside or anyone in it." Pete did not respond. He looked
over in time to see Adam who had been at the barricades since the
beginning, heading quickly back into Westside. He turned to call after him
but stopped. No surprise that guy can't take it, he thought.  

Across from them General Banquist stood out among his troops half a head or
more above his tallest soldier. He puffed like an engine as he directed his
men to prepare for battle. His face the only recognizably human detail
among figures in black body armor and helmets and face shields.  

Around noon, the General stood across the street holding a bull horn. His
troops stood behind him impossibly still, forming a phalanx shaped like the
head of a shallow shovel.  

"Attention people of Westside." He spoke slowly giving weight to his words.
"This is General Banquist of the National Guard. You are presently in
violation of the law and the proper operation of this city.  For three days
you have refused the request of the police department to remove your
barricades and turn yourself in to the authorities. You now have fifteen
minutes to remove the barricades. If you do not begin removing them in
fifteen minutes..." he paused and then and in a somber tone added "may God
be with you." The general did not wait for any response but turned and
walked to a platform just to the right of his troops from where he would
direct the battle.  

When the allotted time had elapsed, the general gave the command for this
troops to move. As the soldiers marched forward slowly, the protestors
began to throw bottles and stones and flaming Molotov cocktails.  Initially
the soldiers, seemed impervious to the barrage, but as they got closer one
of the soldiers was knocked of balance by a well aimed brick.  The soldier
directly next to one who had stumbled, immediately broke from the ranks and
charged the barricade with his nightstick raised above his head.  He lunged
into one of the protestors who met him with equal force.  Other protestors
now rose from behind the barrier and wielding pipes and bats began to
engage the soldiers. For a few minutes neither side gave ground.  

Then the general ordered troops in the second line to open fire on the
protestors. The soldiers were only equipped with rubber bullets and had
difficulty directing their fire in close combat, but they were able to
drive the protestors back from the barricades to point that they all began
to flee for cover.  As they ran, the soldiers continued to fire knocking
down anyone they found in their sites. The noise of gunfire filled the
street drowning out even the cries from the fallen.  When there was no one
left standing, the firing stopped and the soldier who had lead the charge,
lowered his gun. 

A moment later he was knocked to the ground, his gun sliding across the
street. As he lay unconscious, Adam turned and lunged with impossible speed
at the next nearest soldier.  Soldiers turned to try to catch him with
their weapons, but found themselves only aiming at their own men as Adam
rushed among them.  

Seeing the change in advantage, the protestors came out from where they had
taken shelter and once again rushed the soldiers. General Banquist ordered
a water cannon that sat on top of an armored car to direct its fire at
Adam.  Within moments, Adam was on top of the armored car and had put the
canon out of action.  

Amid the chaos of fighting, Adam stood for a moment on the armored car and
looked over at General Banquist. A smile crossed the general's face as he
leapt from his platform and ran toward Adam catching him as he jumped from
the car.  They both tumbled to the ground knocking over a pair of barrels
that had been set up by the soldiers. 

They came to a stop with the general on top and for a moment, Adam
panicked. He had never felt strength like this before. With a rush of
adrenalin, he liberated himself from the general's grip and jumped to his
feet. As he watched the general rise up off the ground. He could feel his
whole body struggling for oxygen as panic still held him in its grip.  

The general stood only yards away. The general ran toward Adam, his massive
body outweighing him by at least a hundred pounds.  Adam lowered himself
bracing for the attack, but could not keep the general from knocking him
off balance.  Adam tried to brake free, but the General caught him in his
grip. He lifted Adam off the ground and flung him into the wall of a nearby
building. Adam collapsed against the wall and then fell to the pavement.  

The general came running toward him, but this time Adam leapt quickly onto
a nearby car, avoiding the general's advance. He did not want to be seen as
running from the general's attack, but he had no choice until he could
think of a better strategy. The general again came at him grabbing for his
legs and crashing his bulk into the side of the car.  But again Adam was
quick and silently leapt past the general. He landed on the lower rung of a
fire escape and just behind the him.  

Slow to turn, Adam sensed vulnerability as he looked down on the General's
backside.  Instinctively he leapt down and onto the generals back and
following this same instinct, he sunk his teeth into the back of the
general's neck and felt his fingers puncture his flesh where he held his
chest. The general roared like a beast that had not walked the earth for a
thousand years. A sound so chilling that those around him stop fighting and
turned to watch the two battle. The general flung Adam off with all his
might landing him on the pavement a few yards away. Adam jumped to his feet
and stood facing the general. 

Blood now trickled down the general's neck and onto his white t-shirt. His
dress coat long since cast off. His breathing was heavy.  He seemed to
acknowledge the danger he now faced, but then a smile appeared on his face.
May God be with you, the general thought to himself.

The general lunged again, but Adam now knew what to expect, as if he were
playing out a practiced scene.  He caught the general's leg as he passed
tearing flesh and causing the general to stumble onto his side. The general
hobbled up and stood limp and then lunged again, but now with a sense of
abandon. 

The battle continued until the general fell to the street where he rested
unable to raise himself. He rolled onto his back. His powerful chest
heaving warm air into the cool night. Over time his breathing began to slow
until it was so shallow as to be imperceptible, and then it stopped.  

The protestors cheered and ran toward Adam, but he pushed them away and
quickly made his escape back into Westside to find Clay. And in a small
alley behind a dumpster behind a fence, he found Clay waiting.  

Clay could see that Adam's suit was torn in multiple places and he was
holding his shoulder tenderly. "Oh my god are you okay?" he asked. "Yeah."
Adam smiled. "I'm okay." "I was really worried about you." Clay confessed.
He handed Adam his clothes and helped him dress. "Thanks." Adam said. He
put his arm tenderly around Clay's shoulder and said "Lets go home."
