Near the beginning of time, back when the world was still flat, there lived some very
simple creatures called Blinkers, at least that is what modern anthropologist call
them. It is not clear that they called themselves anything at all. The Blinkers had
eyes and eye lids much as we do, but blinked in a very precise and regular manner. 

The duration of each blink was very short compared with the time between blinks
giving them a view of the world similar to a series of snap shots evenly spaced
apart in time. In fact, the duration of each blink was so short, that they
could discern no motion in a single blink. They truly captured instants of
time. You might ask how is this possible. For wouldn't even the shortest blink
reveal some change in the position of a moving object?  But what if time and
thereby motion was not continuous, but progressed in discrete increments like
the second hand of a clock?  This was the world of the Blinkers.

The Blinkers had one important flaw or feature depending on your perspective.
Their memories of what they saw was shorter than the time between blinks. As a
result, they could make no connection between one snap shot and the next. An
object appearing in front of them might, in the next instant, be in the same
spot or quite far away. There was no way for them to predict which, since they
had no evidence that the object had ever been anywhere else.

They were a carefree lot since in order to worry they would need something to
worry about. Because they could make no connection between one event and the
next, they could make no prediction about what might happen in the future, good
or bad. Every time they opened their eyes, there would be something new to see,
though sometimes with devastating consequences. In another version of the
story, they lived in shear terror about what was going to happen next, but I
prefer the carefree version. Either way, they were not very successful in the
evolutionary sense, often getting knocked off by some fast moving object before
reaching adulthood. 

Over time, the Blinkers evolved to a point where their ability to remember
extended back one blink. This changed their lives greatly.  They could now
comprehend that an object presently in front of them was the same object that,
only a moment ago, had been off in the distance. For the first time they had a
sense of change in their world and thereby a sense of time, because what else
is time but change. 

Before their evolutionary enhancement, the Blinker's understanding of the world
was limited to just knowing the position of an object, but now they began to
notice that the position of an object could change over time. They began to
notice that between two blinks some objects made great leaps in their position
while some moved very little, and some remained exactly where they had been.
Using blinks as their only measure of time and their ability to judge relative
position, they could estimate the speed and direction of an object. Objects
that moved more between blinks were moving faster and generally felt to be more
dangerous.

Like all known creatures, they could still not see into the future, but based
on their enhanced memory they could make better predictions. They believed that
an object whose position changed very little between blinks would continue to
change that exact same amount into the future. What reason would there be for
it to change?  

Using this knowledge, they could now attempt to move themselves out of the suspected
path of an object. Their rate of survival improved.  Still their understanding of
motion was far from perfect and they were still sometimes knocked over by objects
whose change in motion was not consistent. When this happened it was, of course, a
great surprise to them. And at the moment of impact, their little brains could only
think, oh my, there is something wrong in the universe.

But evolution marched on and in time the Blinkers were able to remember a span
of three blinks. With two blinks, they could estimate the change in position
of an object, but with three blinks they could compare the difference between
two changes in position. Moving objects no longer seemed to head off into
oblivion and still objects no longer seemed destined to be motionless forever.
Their world was now alive with a rich and complex motions of the world as
objects appeared to speed up, slow down and change direction.

there was fate and chaos.
In this new world, they recognized not only that change was possible, but that they
could cause change, and further that change could be used to their own advantage and
the disadvantage of another. Suddenly, being knocked about by a fast moving object
was no longer only due to a matter of chance, but often to the intention of another. 

Unfortunately, their power of understanding had progressed more quickly than their
power of rational behavior, and so, in short order intention succeeded where chance
had failed and the Blinkers proceeded to knock their entire race in oblivion leaving
only fossils in the sand.

