After only fifteen minutes, Professor Zeretski had filled half the
blackboard with equations and, as was his habit, paused after completing
each equation and tapped the board with his chalk as if to emphasize that
numbers, more than words, could be relied on to carry truth.  But the truth
was that his latest discovery sounded outlandish, maybe too outlandish,
when simply described in lay English.

His audience, six men and one woman, were sitting around a long and
expensive conference table in a room far above the streets of Manhattan. On
the walls hung paintings of sailing yachts from an earlier era, all set in
heavy wooden frames. The early morning sky was gray suggesting rain.
Through the windows it was possible to see people far below wrapped in fall
attire and making their way silently and with haste toward another day of
work, but none of this had the attention of the people around the table. 

The blackboard, out of place in the room, had been brought in for
Zeretski's presentation. No one had spoken since he began his lecture, but
the patience of the men around the table was beginning to wear as they
started looking at each other with glances that confided how little they
understood of what he was saying.

The one woman in the room was the professor's lab assistant, Judith Kitts.
A woman in her early 30s who had worked for him since she was a teenager.
She was the reason he was here and arranging this meeting had not been
easy. The professor needed money and these were the sort of people who
could give it to him. 

Finally, Mr. Jonson, one of the older gentlemen at the table, cleared his
throat and interrupting Zeretski said, "Professor, with the likely
exception of Ms. Kitts, we have only the vaguest notion of what you are
talking about. Do you think you could explain your latest discovery in
less..hmm...scientific terms?"

Professor Zeretski paused for a moment and stared out the window as if
something else had caught his attention. He then turned back to look at
Jonson and said, "I have discovered love." "Love?" said Jonson. "Love?"
thought Judith.  Well, at least he had their attention.

"My dear professor, I do hope you have not come here just to tell us that
you have fallen in love." "No, No" smiled the professor as if he were in on
the joke. "I have discovered the force of attraction between humans. Not
only have I discovered what causes this attraction. I know how to make it
happen."

"Are you saying you know how to make people fall in love?" Said Mr.
Franklin, who together with Jonson, directed the investment firm of
Franklin and Jonson.  "Not love precisely. I have discovered the force of
attraction that exists between people, what makes them close friends or
mortal enemies. Just like the fundamental forces of gravity or magnetism,
human attraction is a quantifiable force that can pull people together or
push them apart." 

"Maybe you can help Halpern here" said one of the younger men at the table,
gesturing toward the man sitting next to him. "He's been chatting up the
bar maid at Pete's Pub for weeks now and she still won't give him the time
of day."

"Then scientifically speaking, there is no attraction between them." said
Zeretski.  "Oh, I wouldn't say that. Poor Halpern is half mad for the young
lady, and with good reason, I might add." Halpern tired to smile, but was
not entirely comfortable with this discussion of his personal life.

"No" responded the professor shaking his head. "Young Halpern is no more
attracted to the bar maid than this a wooden chair could feel an attraction
to the most powerful magnet on earth. The attraction between humans" he
continued, "behaves like any other force. It must be mutual."

Zeretski then lifted a glass of water off the table and held it above the
floor.  "While it is easy imagine the massive Earth pulling the tiny glass,
it is harder to imagine the tiny glass pulling the massive Earth. But the
fact is that the attraction and between the two objects is the same."
Dropping the glass on the carpeted floor, he said, "The only reason the
Earth moves so little is simply its size."

As the glass lay on the floor, he addressed Halpern directly "You feel like
you are supposed to like this bar maid and so you invent an artificial
sense of attraction where none exists." The room was silent for a moment as
everyone around the table contemplated their own relationships with wives,
friends and family.

But was what they had discovered really love, thought Judith, as she
contemplated her own life. Her knowledge of the subject was limited. It
came mostly from books and movies and the confidences of her few friends.
She had never known her mother and had cried when her father, a scientist
who worked with Zeretski, had died, but had they loved each other?

The conversation turned to the status of Zeretski's discovery, specifically
what proof he had for his claims. Zeretski confessed that, to date, his
only experiments had been with animals, to be precise two mice which he
revealed were named Harold and Helen. The names were Judith's suggetion and
taken from a novel she had been reading at the time. She was now regretting
her decision.

The tone of the meeting shifted again with the gentlemen now poking fun at
the notion of two mice in love. Judith understood their skepticism, but not
their lack of respect for a man who had won the Nobel Prize for physics at
the age of 28. Men who had nothing to show for their work but money. 

Zeretski had submitted his first paper to the Journal of Physics when he
was only sixteen and a student at the University of Budapest.  Shortly
after, he was recruited to Princeton University where he completed his
Nobel prize winning work on electronic transfer, which had led to the low
cost electrification of cities and towns throughout the country.

By his mid-thirties, he had become famous and one of the most respected
scientists in America. Though the focus of his scientific work quickly
shifted from the practical to the exotic. His 

Having achieved success so early
in life and without serious struggle, it seemed he felt that nothing was
impossible or possibly having earned it all too easily, he feared none of
it was real.

With substantial financial backing, he had built a large laboratory in the
warehouse district of Manhattan with a staff which at its peak numbered 34.
And though he had made some moderately successful discoveries, his work had
never lived up to his grand visions. 

As his work produced more failures, his visions grew more outlandish. He
had taken to giving garish demonstrations that often included enormous
sparks and blasts of colorful smoke, bordering on theater. The papers
labeled him a mad scientist and he played the part well, so well, that it
became unclear if Zeretski himself could distinguish what was real from
what was theater. It sometimes seemed as if in desperation, he felt he
might conjure reality from well crafted make believe. But Judith was
convinced that his most recent work, their work, was quite real.

After the meeting, Jonson and Franklin met privately. "What do you think of
Zeretski's claims?" asked Jonson. "It is either the most important
discovery of our century or just another one of his outlandish ideas." said
Franklin.  "Mice." Jonson said, mostly to himself. "What sort of proof are
mice?" "Why need to get an expert we trust to listen to his claims" said
Franklin.  "Not likely" said Jonson. "He is completely paranoid. I guess I
did not mention that he would only allow members of the firm at the
meeting." "Then what was he doing with all those equations and scientific
jargon in front of a group of bankers?" asked Franklin. "Who knows. How
else do you really explain these sorts of things?" 

"So should we try to find out more?" asked Franklin. "Seems like it might
be worth the expense." said Jonson. "Once we have more information, we can
decide how to move forward" "Should I call Mueller?" asked Franklin.  "I
think so. Let's get him started with the usual contract."

Stanley Mueller was listed under private detectives in the Yellow Pages
though mainly because there was no heading for criminal. To be fair, he did
investigative work, but his work often and intentionally crossed legal
boundaries and on occasion could even include physical coercion. Though he
was tall and well built, he was not what you might typically consider a
brute. He seemed to possess no particular malice toward anyone. He was
simply a man who liked to take a direct path toward whatever objective was
put in front of him.

He had grown up in the city, never finished high and moved from a life on
the streets to his present occupation. His initial employment had mostly
been as a thug working for various mob bosses, but he was smart and
handsome and through a series of chance meetings had been introduced to a
class of gentlemen though not defined as criminals needed his sort of help
once in a while. He had developed a reputation for getting a job done and
for doing so discretely, and as a result, he made a decent living. At
thirty years old, he lived alone dating a series of women until each one
realized that the present state of Stanley Mueller would bare little
difference to the future state of Stanley Mueller. The only ticking clock
he heard in his head was the one marching him steadily through life.

After Stanley's meeting with Franklin and Jonson, he arrived back at his
apartment to find a note from his present girlfriend letting him know that
she was out for the afternoon, but would be back with dinner. Immediately,
he regretted giving her a key his apartment. He was getting soft in his old
age he chuckled to himself. He looked in his fridge for lunch, but there
were few reasonable candidates. He had to admit that having a regular and
decent meal might be a life improvement. 

He headed out to local diner and sat thinking about his new contract. It
seemed straight forward enough, find and copy information about an
invention that dealt with forces that existed between humans. The whole
invention seemed kinda crazy, but who was he to judge. He had known of
Zeretski since he was a kid. Everybody knew of Zeretski. The hardest part
seemed to be how to find the specific information that was important, but
there had been a scientist at the meeting who had apparently worked with
Zeretski and let him know exactly what he should look for and a good idea
as to where to look.  Still, how would he be sure about what was important
and what was not?  For now, he just had to figure out how to get in to
his lab.

After the meeting, Judith had gone back to the lab with Zeretski hopeful
that he had made a favorable impression, hopeful that the men in their
expensive suits would believe in his work enough to invest. But her hopes
sat on the surface of doubts. Doubts not only about their interest in their
work, but doubts about the work itself. Her emotional state over the past
few years (and maybe her whole life, she really could not remember) seemed
vacilate between periods of doubt and optimism. But instead of resulting in
a zero sum, these opposing feelings reinforced each other, always pushing
her forward like the swing of a pendelum.

Professor Zeretski seemed immune from these sorts of vacillations. As long
as she had know him, he also just continually pushed forward driven by some
mysterous force either ignoring the world around him when it did not meet
his or pushing through it like an on a north Atlantic icebreaker making its
way through in a perpetual winter ice flow. 

It was two weeks after the meeting and Judith was seated at the bar of the
San Marco where she went every Thursday evening to read a book and have a
meal. She began coming here over a year ago with a friend from high school,
but a few months ago her friend moved to another city and so she just
continued coming here by herself. She was relieved when her friend moved
away. The dinners had started to feel awkward. Very little changed in
either of thier lives and sitting there with not much to say, only
served to emphasize this point. Maybe she was just better off alone.

The last few weeks had been particularly stressful for Judith. The mere
prospect of financial salvation cast a sharp contrast against the certainty
of their financial predicament making it all the less bearable. She had no
idea what she would do if she could not work in the lab and preferred not
to think about, and to focus on her book instead.

The San Marco was a lively restaurant with dancing and a band, but for
Judith it was a place that gave her a sense of peace that she did not find
at work or home. Tucked away in her usual seat at the end of the bar she
was surrounded by the chaotic energy of human life, the sort of human
energy that would have made her feel uncomfortable had she been immersed in
it, but from her seat the chaos danced around her, wild and powerful, but
totally consumed with itself. It was as if the two worlds were in effect
miles apart. As a result, she was mostly left alone.

This evening the club was more crowded than usual, and a few minutes after
she sat down, the man next to her offered to buy her a drink. Without
looking up from her book she said "No thanks", and waited for the bartender
to find her. 

The man then asked her what she was reading. Barely turning her head she
named the title of the book and the author. He went on to say that he had
read another book by the same author and asked her what she thought of it.
This was generally her cue to leave, but as she turned she saw a man who
was handsome, far more handsome than the ones that usually fell into the
back eddy of the San Marco. This man looked like someone who did not belong
next to her, someone who had somehow gotten lost from the crowd and not yet
realized it. He looked at her with a smile that was warm and confident a
sort of confidence that she could barely imagine.

She answered that she had read the book he mentioned and then she waited.
She could not exactly recall his question and so she just looked at him,
curious to see what would happen next. He gave her a sort of quizzical look
and then asked again what she thought of the book. She said, "Which one,
the one I am reading or his other one?" She was aware that her question
came off as abrupt, which was not what she intended but decided that that
was fine. He sort of laughed and said "both."

The spent the evening talking, initially about books, but she soon found
that his reportior was limited, though he ask lots of questions and seem
geniunly interested in her opinions. He told her he was a salesman for a
regional electronics manufacturing company. She said she worked as a
scientific lab assistant.  By the end of the evening, he had been able to
lure her off her perch and into the swirling crowd on the dance floor. 

That evening he walked her back to her apartment and said good bye. They
agreed that he could call her again. As she walked the four flights to her
apartment, she felt powerful emotions swimming around in her head. Like
imps from the deep they grabbed her, pulling her this way and that but
never sitting still long enough for proper investigation. "Love?" she
thought. Certainly a posibility. It seemed to fit the basic scientific
criteria assuming that he was not pretending. And then "Oh hang scientific
criteria" she thought and had the terrible doubt that she and Zaretski were
fools to pretend that they could quantify what she was feeling.

A few days later, Stanley Mueller was seated in Johnson's office explaining
that he had met the girl, and expected that within the next couple of weeks
he would be able get inside the lab and have time to copy the relevant
documents. Johnson said there was no real rush and that he didn't care to
know the details, but just to let him know when he had the material.

The next few days were hard for Judith as she waited for him to call. She
was in love or head over heals in love as she described it to herself,
because there was no one else she felt comfortable confiding in, certainly
not Zaretski with whom she spent most of her time. In some ways the feeling
was awful, an aching and irrational desire. It made no sense on its face
and analying it did not seem to help.

It seemed to her to take far more than a few days for following Saturday to
arrive, Judith sat across from Stanley at an outdoor cafe.  She asked him
about his family and he told her a mix of truth and fiction.  Over the
years, he had gotten good at coming up with stories about himself that were
easily believable, but did not give away anything that could be easily
verified.  Relatives were all conveniently far away or deceased. 

For her part, she just wanted to keep the conversation going. Silence was
the one thing she had to avoid at all costs. Silence meant that she was not
interesting and she had to be interesting. So far it has not been a
problem with a wealth of untapped information, but the future worried her
and she had a hard time keeping all these thoughts out of her head.

At one point a friend of Stanely's passing the cafe stopped to say hello.
It was an ocupational hazard which came up once in a while since he had a
fairly large circle of friends in the city. Mostly they knew about his work
and were conscientiously discrete when running into him in public. It was
also why he always used his real name. The chance of someone looking him up
in the yellow pages seemed reasonably remote.

Stanely shifted the conversation to her work and mentioned that he had
always loved science and that as kid he had wanted to be a scientist, but
that he could not afford to go to college. He asked lots of questions.
When she finally told him that she worked for Zaretski he exclaimed that
Zaretski was the scientist he admired most as a kid and that he had read
two biographies about him. "You don't think it would be possible for me to
meet him do you?" He asked. She said he was pretty paranoid about visitors
but she would see what she could do. Already, she was dreading having to
ask him as it was the kind of thing he really hated. He would go out of his
way to put on a show for a audience of important people, but would have no
time for guy she met in a bar. He let it drop, but did say that he would be
happy just to see his lab.

Back at his apartment Stanely's girlfriend asked, "So, how was your date?"
her tone betrayed a hint of sarcasm and annoyance. She then added, "I wish
I could be one of your, what do you call them pawns, victims, than maybe I
could get you to take me out." "Okay, Okay he said, you knew this was part
of the deal when you met me" "I knew you were a private detective, but I
didn't know that included dating other women." she said. He knew she was
not really angry, just using this as a way to gain an advantage over him,
but it irked him just the same. "Do you like her?" she asked. "She seems
smart, I like that." He said. Iris, his girlfriend, had never gone to
college. Iris just looked at him betrying little emotion. "Okay" he said,
"We don't have a lot in common and I find her a little annoying." adding,
"She's kind of nervous all the time and seems like she is always trying to
say the right thing" He stopped short of saying, "You know how I find that
sort of thing annoying" feeling this might be cutting to close to the truth
about his own feelings toward Iris. 

Iris then smiled and asked, "Is she as good looking as me?" "No" he said
without hesitation. That always worked he thought. You could go on and on
about what kinds of things were important in relationships, but people were
fooling themselves if it ever can down to anything but good looks.

Judith spent the next week just making sure she ate enough. She was so
preoccupied with her thoughts of romance, she could barely remember to eat
and then when she remembered she was so nervous that rarely felt very
hungry.  She reviewed the past two dates in her mind over and over again,
trying to analyze what went wrong and what went right. She resisted
constant urges to call Stanely or write him a note just to say she was
thinking of him. She was planning to see him on Friday evening and had
forced herself to wait. 

She also had not ask Zaretski if Stanely could visit the lab. She wanted to
find a moment when his initial reaction would be anything but No. It was so
much harder to negotiate back from No, but no opportunity arose. 

On Friday they met in front of The Warren, a popular theater downtown.
Stanely had gotten them tickets to a hot new show that both he and Judith
were excited to see. Stanely's mood though was colored by an argument that
he had with his girlfriend just before the show. She had been particularly
peved that he was taking Judith out again on Friday night but mostly
because they were going to a new show that she had wanted to see as well
and she knew the tickets were hard to get. He could only tell her that this
was his job and that there was not much he could do about it. He did say
that he thought this might be the last date and then promised to get
tickets to the same show for Saturday night. How he was going to do this he
did not know and that he was even promising this sort of thing he felt was
a very bad sign.

After the show, they agreed to go out for drinks. On the way they talked
about the show. It was one of the newer sort of satorical musicals that had
become popular. One of the two leading men was protrayed as a bit of an
arrogant brutt and it was his gruff manner that got him in trouble in the
end. Judith felt it was a bit sterotypical but had felt that he had gotten
what he deserved.  Stanely did not feel this way at all She was quiet for a
moment making matters worse. This was just the sort of behavoir that he
could not stand. He changed the subject asking about her work. She
appreciated his interest and was about to respond just as they got to the
bar. Getting an idea in her head, she suddenly suggested that they go to
another bar that she had heard about recently. It took all of his effort to
supress a groan and make him think that he really was not cut out for this
line of work any more, and instead smiled and said sure. 

They began to walk in a direction that seemed to lead away from any of the
bars he knew. At first he wondered where she could possibly be taking him
and then he began to think that maybe this evening was going to work out
afterall. His mood improved and they talked about their weeks of which most
of what he said was completely made up.

When they arrived at the door of Zaretski's lab, she gave him a sly smile
and asked how he would like to go in and see the lab. He acted
appropriately surprised. The door was heavy with large metal rivits and
straps. It was battered and rough as the entrance to a meat locker or maybe
super hero hidout as protrayed in a popular comic book more likely. Above
the door was a single gas discharge light that gave a faint buzzing sound
and cast an uneartly white. Other than that there was not description of
what lay beyond. A man as famous as Zaretski did not need to advertise,
quite the opposite or so was the impression.

After leading him up a metal platform stairway with walls that had not been
repainted in years, they entered the first room which was long with lab
benches on either side. Mueller was impressed. The lab certainly lived up
to its reputation. There were glass cylinders with smoke pouring from them,
large metal columns emitting sparks, and various biological objects
suspended in sealed glass jars. Though many of the experiments gave the
impression that they had been running unattended for years.

She showed him where she had been working for the past few months on one
part of a much larger device. It made very little sense to him, but he
fiened interest notheless. What he really wanted to see was Zaretski's
study since this was where he was told he would find his most recent lab
book. He had worked out a hastely concieved plan to propose a toast to some
important event in their relationship for which he had brought a flask and
two small shot glasses. Into one he would place a micky that would put her
out for long enough for him to make copies of the documents. She was not
much of a drinker and he sure he could make a convincing arguement that she
had just passed out from the drink. But all this could wait, till his
request did not seem to pushy.

The whole time he felt as if she were leading him to a particular part of
the lab when she opened the doors onto what was, by far, the largest room
he had seen so far. Mueller saw a space over two stories high and wide
enough for a large carrosel and seemed to be mostly round in shape. Much of
the walls were covered in a maze of thick black electrical cable. Some of
the cables were as thick as his forearm. Distributed around the upper story
were what looked like gray electrical transformer boxes giving the
impression that whatever went on in here, it needed a lot of power. Much of
the room was empty with the exception of the middle of the room was a large
apparatus that appeared to be the focal point of all the machinery that
surrounded them. The machine extended about half way down from the ceiling
and stopped. Below it was a platform that extened up about foot from the
floor leaving a space only seven feet high between.

There seemed to be control panels everywhere with levers, switches and
dials. All of it quiet except for the slight buzzing of the overhead
lights. Judith threw a switch and the entire apparatus came to life. Red
and yellow lights illuminated and needles on dials moved to indicate life.
She was not sure why she did this. It seemed like the kind of dramatic
effect that Zaretski might put on to impress. 


He said it seemed like a bunch of hooey. What possed him to say this he did
not know, except that it was exactly what he felt. The whole place looked
like a bad movie set and the her idea seemed like to plot to a worse movie.
Judith took offence and just did not say anything. She got a hurt look on
her face, which just made things worse. Stanely reminded himself that this
was work and he was on a job. Admittedly he could not blame her as he had
just insulted her entire life's work. As she turned to walk away from him
he reached out to grab her arm. He held her and said listen. He wanted to
make things right. He had to make things right. She pulled away, but she
held him. He was frustrated, mostly with himself, for screwing this whole
thing up just when he was so close.

He pulled her back and she said, "Let go of me." "No" He said, "Let's just
talk about this." "No, I don't want to talk." She said as she dug her
finger nails into his arm and pulled harder and kicked him in the shin.  As
he moved to avoid being kicked, he tripped and fell letting go of her arm
and landing in the middle of the platform. Laying for a moment he looked up
at her, rubbing his head and trying to think of his next move. She looked
directly at him saying nothing and then with a smile on her face turned and
grabed a lever just outside the platform.  

Suddenly there was a loud noise like a crack of thunder and they were awash
in a burst of light, momentarily frozen as if captured in an overexposed
photo. And then, just as suddenly, the light was gone.

As they left the lab arm in arm, all Stanely could think about was what he
was going to tell Iris.

END

latest work was on the ability to control the attraction between humans.
She described their work in modest detail and then asked Mueller if he
thought this was even possible. He said, "To be honest, it seems a bit far
fetched." "What makes you think so?" She asked.  "Well it seems that
emotions are somewhat outside the bounds of science." he said. "And from
what base of knowledge do you draw your understanding of the bounds of
science?" she asked suddenly feeling irritated and in mocking tone.  "Well,
just because I never went to college, doesn't mean I don't have common
sense." "Common sense" she said laughed, "What has common sense got to do
with anything?" Irratated, they each continued on, each blindly pursuing
their own point of view until they both stopped.  

For a moment they just looked at each other. He frustrated at what he
percieved as her arrogance and she embarrassed by losing control over her
feelings. "Listen I'm sorry" she said, "Maybe we should just go." As she
turned to walk toward the door. He reached out to stop her. "Wait" he said.
"I really want to stay and see more." "No. I think it is best we leave."
She said pulling away from him.

Not sure what to do, he held her arm, but before he could reason with her,
she dug her nails into his arm and pulled him forward. Surprised, he lost
his balance and fell against her. Reaching out to stop her own fall she
grabbed a control panel on the machine. Suddenly there was a loud noise
like a crack of thunder and they were awash in a burst of light,
momentarily frozen as if captured in an overexposed photo. And then, just
as suddenly, the light was gone.

As they left the lab and headed back toward the still bustling city night,
Mueller said, "I have something to confess." Without stopping she held his
and more tightly and said, "Let's save our confessions for later and go get
something to eat. I am suddenly feeling famished."




waited for Stanley outside a new restaurant
in mid-town. The intervening days had tempered her emotions to the point
that where her feelings had always been there was now a void. She felt
neither the chaotic emotions of human attraction nor the purely analytical
intensity with which she usually approached her work and life. She felt
nothing but the sense of a true void waiting to be filled, as if all the
combatants had momentarily retreated from the battle field leaving a sudden
and eerie silence. 

As she turned, she saw him walking toward her. Having only seen him once
before she was still etching his final image in her head, but he was still
handsome and smiling and thoughts of her own thoughts disappeared. They
greeted each other awkwardly. They paused. There was a moment when either
one could have reached out, a hand touching sleeve or shoulder but did not.
He opened the door leading her into the restaurant where he had reserved a
table. During the evening they talked and laughed.  

For weeks they dated until these emotions for which she could still not
find a name became less illusive and began to dominate her consciousness
camped out became less illusive more familiar but no less difficult to name
or fathom.  

One day, looking up from her microscope she rested her eyes and stared at
the wall. For the past hour, she had been counting red blood cells. The
count was part of an experiment that they had been running for the past
month. As her mind began to wonder, she turned to watch Zeretski fiddling
with an electronic circuit that was part of their latest experimental
apparatus.  As she watched him, she mentioned that she had recently met a
man she liked. Engrossed in his work, he responded with slight "hmmm", but
only enough to politely acknowledge that she had spoken and no more. She
paused still watching him and then added that the man was a great admirer
of Zeretski's work. Something seemed to catch his attention, most likely
the mention of his name and he turned and said "I'm sorry, what were you
saying."

She immediately found herself rambling about this person she had just met.
Zeretski turned from his work and listened politely and nodded
appropriately. When she got to the point of describing how Zeretski had
been one his childhood heroes and how much he wanted to met him, Zeretski
showed a sudden interest and asked, "Where did you say you met him?" She
described the bar. And then with a more intense curiosity "And why did he
say he wanted to meet me?" She again repeated his admiration for Zeretski
and described his childhood dream of becoming scientist but never having
the money to afford college. 

Zeretski's curiosity turned to suspicion. He asked her more questions about
what she knew about him which was not a lot and he began to sew doubts
about his motives. Like most scientists Zeretski was protective of his
work, but over the past few years, his suspicions began to border on
paranoia as they increased disproportionately with repect to any success in
his work.  Zeretski ended by saying, "You must promise me that he is not to
come here under any circumstances."

But Zeretski's questions did raise doubts. Who was this man and what did
she really know about him? More importantly, why her? Yes, this was what
puzzled her most. What did he see in her? These doubts came creeping out of
her subconscious. They offered to protect her from the danger she had felt
since it all started, a sense of danger for which they may have been wholly
responsible. 

For the next week and a half, Mueller tried to contact her, repeatedly
calling her apartment and leaving messages with the building's answering
service. When a week and half later she finally picked up the phone and
said, "Hello" he was taken a back. "I thought I might never reach you
again." he said. "And I thought you might never stop trying." She replied.
He half laughed not sure what to make of this. She apologized and said that
she was busy at work and getting home late each night, but agreed to meet
him the following Friday to see a show.

After the show, they walked together from the theater and talked. She felt
more relaxed with him than she had in their past encounters, but it was a
confidence that came with a sharper attention to detail and contrast.

He noticed that they seemed to be headed away from the crowds and into the
warehouse district where Zeretski had his lab. When they arrived at an
overtly nondescript entrance to a large wharehouse under a light that
dramatically flickered and buzzed as if perpetually about to blow out, she
asked "Would you like to come in and see the lab?"


